Sunny Savita: So, let's, begin. Just, just give me a moment, okay, wait.
Sunny Savita: Point, so let's start. I hope I am also visible, right?
Sunny Savita: So, let's, start, with the session. Guys, in the previous class, we were talking about the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: So, I hope, guys, you have joined my previous class, yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Have you joined my previous session?
Sunny Savita: Any… anyone is a new joinee, because I… I have seen in the chat, people have written that they just joined the session, they just joined the batch, and
Sunny Savita: This is the first class.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So this is a modern route, it's not hygienic.
Sunny Savita: Okay, great.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, let's begin, let's start. So first of all, let me check with the dashboard whether all the videos are updated or not.
Sunny Savita: And, after that, I'll check with the material also. So I hope, you have joined my previous class, and you have gone through with the entire Hugging Face notebook.
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys, yes or no, have you gone through with the entire Hugging Face notebook, which I shared in the previous class?
Sunny Savita: So, in the previous session, we discussed about the hugging phase. This is the, this is the class, and I think the recording is up-to-date. And along with the recording, guys, the notes is also up to date.
Sunny Savita: I can see notebook is not there, so don't worry, guys, you can check out with the notebook, with the GitHub itself. I updated the notebook over the GitHub, and this notebook will be available in the resource section also.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the GitHub, guys, which we are following. I hope you have this GitHub. So, inside this GitHub only, I'm keeping all the notes and all everything.
Sunny Savita: So, I'm keeping all the notes and all everything, okay? So, class-wise, so here you can see all the assignments, even I updated the interview questions.
Sunny Savita: Can you see these interview questions over here?
Sunny Savita: Is it visible?
Sunny Savita: Sir, I couldn't go through the workload. Don't worry, I assure you. You can, again, check it out there.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, here I uploaded the interview questions also, so this is the interview questions. If you haven't gone through so far, please go and check, so you can prepare this interview question.
Sunny Savita: You can take this also as an assignment, and you can, basically generate an answer of this interview question. This is a very, important interview question, because this interview question is not, from any ChatGPT, or it is not from any cloud, right?
Sunny Savita: Basically, it is from my real experience, so wherever I give an interview.
Sunny Savita: wherever I give an interview for the generative AI, like, in past,
Sunny Savita: 5 to 10 months, right? Or within 1 year, basically. So I capped all the questions over here, inside this document.
Sunny Savita: So you can utilize this document, and you can basically generate an answer of that. You can go through with it, and this will help you a lot while you are revising the concept, and after completing any topic, basically you can go through with this interview question, right? And you can revise the thing from here as well. Making sense to all of you, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: So, guys, this is the, folder, okay, where basically…
Sunny Savita: You will find out the…
Sunny Savita: Notebook of the Hugging Face. I think I, wrongly, I updated in the wrong folder. So, in the different folder, actually. So, this is the notebook. I will upload in the same folder, in the previous class folder, okay? It is there in my local system. I will push it to the GitHub also.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the notebook, which you can utilize. Got it? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Great, guys. So, let me summarize all the things, and
Sunny Savita: Then, guys, I will start with the fine-tuning, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, where was the class? So, Karthik, I think, we didn't have any class on 31st, right? I announced in the class, I posted the message in the group, right, in the committee chat. Even our team mailed you.
Sunny Savita: How it is possible that you are not looking anywhere.
Sunny Savita: So please keep your eyes at least over the committee chat or over your mail, okay? If you're not joining any live session, then at least check out with the committee chat.
Sunny Savita: Got it.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so today we are going to learn Unslot. Yes, Unslot also will learn. First of all, we'll utilize that Hugging Face knowledge, and we'll try to fine-tune, we'll try to perform the fine-tuning. And the same kind of fine-tuning, basically, will perform using the Unsloth also.
Sunny Savita: In Anslot, we don't have anything. It is a straightforward library, we can directly, write a code using the onslot, so we don't need to, like, learn any, specific concept inside the Anslot, we just have to utilize it for the hugging, for the fine-tuning, okay? So that I will show you, Ashwini. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Okay, great. So, let's, do one thing. Let's, start now. Sir, one request on a date struggle, we know which, okay, so, I will mention, going forward, Amar?
Sunny Savita: I will, mention the data as well over here. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Sorry, we do not understand the question or get stuck, can we discuss it? Definitely, you can discuss. And even, see, even one more thing, guys, see, let's say, someone is looking into the committee chat.
Sunny Savita: I have… I'm seeing many messages are, like, not answered or something like that, right? So, let's say someone is looking into the company chat. Okay, so please answer of those questions. So, people are asking simple, like, error, right?
Sunny Savita: someone is asking, related to the class, okay? So don't wait for my answer only. This is the reason which, like, that's why we have created this, community forum, so that everyone can answer.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, if anyone wants… if anyone wants answer from my end only, you can quote me directly.
Sunny Savita: Right? But guys, what you can do, you can answer for basic questions, if any basic doubt, or any kind of doubt someone is having, okay, if you know about that. Got it?
Sunny Savita: So, will you do it? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Okay, great.
Sunny Savita: So, now guys, let's start, let's begin with the session. So, first of all, let me give you the quick recap from the previous class, and then I will, start with the,
Sunny Savita: Basically, fine-tuning itself, okay? So, I'll show you the practical.
Sunny Savita: So, give me a moment, let me open my Blackboard.
Sunny Savita: If it is visible, please let me know in the chat.
Sunny Savita: Sir, what is actually why you largely taught about a data uploader? Yeah, we'll learn that, Lokesh, okay? In today's session, you will get to know about it. So, here, guys, okay, this is about the RLHCF. It is for my YouTube video. Let me save it, and let me open the new notebook.
Sunny Savita: So, just a second, I think I'm able to save.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So guys, here, is the blackboard, and now let me write the heading over here.
Sunny Savita: The heading is going to be… Non-instruction fine-tuning with fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: with… Okay?
Sunny Savita: Fine-tuning with non-instruction.
Sunny Savita: data.
Sunny Savita: Instruction data.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: own.
Sunny Savita: preference data.
Sunny Savita: Got it?
Sunny Savita: So, fine-engineering with the instruction data, non-instruction data, and with the preference data. So, in a row, we are going to complete that.
Sunny Savita: Now in… after this class only, you will understand the real and the actual meaning of the fine-tuning, means how to perform the fine-tuning practically, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now over here, guys, what I can do, I can write the framework name also. So, fine-tuning with the non-instruction data and the preference data.
Sunny Savita: Using Hugging Face and Unsloth.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Using Hugging Face and using the unslot.
Sunny Savita: So, I hope this, heading is clear to everyone. Now, let's do one thing. Just a second, where it gone.
Sunny Savita: -hmm,
Sunny Savita: Yeah. So I hope, guys, this heading is clear.
Sunny Savita: Now, let me tell you that what all things we have completed so far, okay? The first thing, basically.
Sunny Savita: So, the first thing, basically, we understood the basics and the Fundamental.
Sunny Savita: Ornamental of fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Right, so we have seen the basics and the fundamental of the fine-tuning. So mostly we discussed the theoretical thing over here.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, I've given you some introduction of the fine-tuning, I explain you, what all framework we have, right? And then, basically, we came to the hugging phase, right? So we explore hugging phase in a detail, right? So, we have explore…
Sunny Savita: We have explored the… Hugging face.
Sunny Savita: In detail.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So this is the thing, this is the thing which we have covered in our last three classes, related to the fine-tuning. So, this… these only points
Sunny Savita: we have covered.
Sunny Savita: In our last… Okay? This only point… these only points we have covered in our last three classes.
Sunny Savita: So if you will check out with the previous classes, last three classes, you will get all those, all this thing.
Sunny Savita: And now for the upcoming classes, not today, guys, what we will discuss. So today, we'll discuss about the non-instruction fine-tuning, okay?
Sunny Savita: And here, basically, first I'll show you with the hugging face, and then we'll discuss with the unslot also.
Sunny Savita: Got it.
Sunny Savita: Then, guys, after that, maybe tomorrow. So tomorrow, we'll discuss about what?
Sunny Savita: instruction.
Sunny Savita: fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Then, guys, next Saturday, We'll discuss about what?
Sunny Savita: Next Saturday, we'll discuss about the… Saturday.
Sunny Savita: We'll discuss about the, basically preference tuning.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: And then, guys, we'll talk about the next Sunday.
Sunny Savita: We'll talk about the LoRa concept. I will explain you this concept theoretically, okay, over the blackboard.
Sunny Savita: And we'll discuss.
Sunny Savita: How about the…
Sunny Savita: quantization also. So, just some theoretical point I'll explain you related to the quantization, and this will clear, for sure, okay? This is a very simple concept, it's not very difficult.
Sunny Savita: So this is the, like, roadmap for the next, four classes, and then we are going to complete.
Sunny Savita: Okay, then we are going to be complete this fine-tuning. And at the end of this session, right, so at the end of this fine-tuning module, I will give you the, assignment also. So, one mega assignment.
Sunny Savita: one mega assignment I'll give you.
Sunny Savita: I will give you after the… fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: So, all this thing is clear to all of you, yes or no? Yes, one project is also associated, so that project will discuss later on. So, the entire project basically will do it over the AWS itself. So, if you will check out with the syllabus.
Sunny Savita: I even mentioned about that project, okay? We'll do it over the AWS itself. So we are going to be host our own fine-tuning, our own fine-tuned model, and that model we are going to expose.
Sunny Savita: Making sense? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Okay, great.
Sunny Savita: So, I hope, guys, this entire thing is clear. So, just give me a quick thumbs up if you all are ready, so that we can start with the session.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and someone is asking after this one, guys, so after this, guys, we'll start with the RAG, okay? So quickly, we'll see the theory of the RAG.
Sunny Savita: And we'll see the differences between the RAG and the fine-tuning. And then, we'll start with the practical implementation of the RAG, okay? So, 2 months, straightforward 2 months, will focus on the RAG, agents, evaluation, guardrails, MCP, and all.
Sunny Savita: Which is, like, more practical stuff, and which is being used in an industry, okay? Fine-tuning is not being used that much, but still we are covering, just for the knowledge purpose, right? So if some… somewhere you are encountering this.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so somewhere you are encountering this, then at least you can deal with it. And, with that, actually, you will get some, internal detail of the model, right? How to train the model. You will get more confidence. But believe me, guys, in enterprises, right.
Sunny Savita: In enterprises, in the different companies, right? Like, we are not, training, or we are not fine-tuning model very frequently.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so instead of that, we are putting effort over the RAG, or over the multi-model rag agents.
Sunny Savita: Okay, we are exploring a different way of accessing LLM, like LLM gateways and all, right? So those are the important things which we are going to cover after the fine-tuning. So two to three more classes for the fine-tuning, and after that, we are going to,
Sunny Savita: After that, basically, we are going to shift to the RAG and agent itself, because our entire project, whatever project I mentioned, right, it is based on that only.
Sunny Savita: Making sense? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Okay, great.
Sunny Savita: So, let's begin, let's start. So, first of all, guys, what you have to do, you have to open your notebook, okay? Collab Notebook. So, you can open the collab notebook, and there, basically, you can perform the practical.
Sunny Savita: But I would suggest you, don't do it, right now. You can observe to me, and later on, you can, perform the practical, okay? Later on, you can do the practice.
Sunny Savita: Got it?
Sunny Savita: So, first guys, what I'll do, I'll open the Google Collab. Now, can anyone tell me why we are using the Google Collab?
Sunny Savita: Anyone can let me know in the chat that why we are using a Google collab.
Sunny Savita: So, we are using Google Collabs so that we can
Sunny Savita: access the GPU, okay? So we can access the free GPU.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Right? So, for accessing free GPUs, we are using the Google Collab. You can purchase the GPU also, I don't have any issue. So, if you wanted to purchase a GPU, you can purchase the GPU, and on top of it, you can, using the, basically high-end GPU, what you can do, guys, you can perform the…
Sunny Savita: basically, using that high-end GP, you can train the bigger model as well, right? So, what I'm doing, guys, I'm creating a new notebook over here, and definitely I'll share this notebook with all of you. So, just give me a second.
Sunny Savita: So, here, guys, what I'm doing, I'm going to be connect with the runtime. So, I will select the GPU while I'm connecting to the runtime.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, I'll save it, and after saving, here I will connect it, okay? So, right-hand side, you can see the connect option.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Now here, what I'll do, guys, I'll write a title of this notebook. So the title of the notebook is going to be…
Sunny Savita: non-instruction.
Sunny Savita: causal, LLM fine-tuning, or I can say domain adaptive continuous pre-training.
Sunny Savita: So this is the title of the fine… this is the title, basically, of the notebook, right?
Sunny Savita: So, I can… I think you are… you can see, the title, and with the title, most of the thing are… most of the things are clear, right? Now, I can quickly check whether it is working fine or not, so simply I can write over here, all OK.
Sunny Savita: And once I'll do it, guys, so yeah, all okay, means my notebook is working fine.
Sunny Savita: So, I hope, guys, everyone, so I hope, guys, you are able to understand the entire process. I would suggest you, don't follow to me right now, you can observe the entire process. Later on, you can do it, okay? So, I'm sharing the notebook with all of you in the chat. You can look into it. So, just give me a moment, I'm sharing a notebook link.
Sunny Savita: So once you got it, please let me know in the chat.
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys, did you get the logbook link?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: All good.
Sunny Savita: So, I'm giving you the data also on which dataset we are going to train our model.
Sunny Savita: And we will go in a same way, like, we are going in any real-time use case, right? For any enterprise use case, we are following the same approach over here.
Sunny Savita: Now, in the backend, Yash is also with me, so guys, if you have any doubt, you can, write in the chat, okay? If, let's say, we are not able to answer with any question, you can ask me in the doubt session.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: So, guys, I'm giving you the dataset, and you can look into the dataset. So just give me a moment, I'm providing you the data also. Wait.
Sunny Savita: So, where is the data? Here is the data. I'm putting a data inside the, over the GitHub, guys, so that you can download.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the updated folder. So, I created one more folder with a current date, okay? And here I'm, writing a name.
Sunny Savita: So I'm renaming this folder, so I'm writing over here, non-instruction.
Sunny Savita: known.
Sunny Savita: instruction.
Sunny Savita: Fine tuning, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, guys, I'm pushing all the changes. You can take all the changes from the GitHub itself. So, give me a moment, I'm giving you all the changes.
Sunny Savita: So, I'm writing git add.
Sunny Savita: dot.
Sunny Savita: good.
Sunny Savita: commit hyphen m Code updated, and then git push.
Sunny Savita: So guys, I push all the changes over the GitHub, you can directly take it from there. So please confirm once you got it.
Sunny Savita: Just let me know in the chat if you got all the changes. Give me a quick confirmation in the chat.
Sunny Savita: Did you get it?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: So where you will find out the changes, you will find out over here, inside of GitHub itself.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the least recent class, and this is the dataset. And here, guys, you can see the notebook from the previous class, okay? Hugging Face Deep Dive Dive.
Sunny Savita: So, let's begin, let's start. So, guys, let's try to understand the problem statement first, and then, basically, we'll perform the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Now, what is the meaning of the non-instruction fine-tuning? What is the meaning of the instruction fine-tuning? We'll understand both, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, guys, let's say, there is one person, right? There is one person. So, what name I can write over here? Let's say there is a, Ganga Dharav, right?
Sunny Savita: So, Gangatar is asking to me, yes, able to see the notebook, so I'm writing your name only, Gangatar.
Sunny Savita: He's not a Saktimana, he's a Gangadhar. Okay, so Gangadhar is there, so let's say there is a Gangada.
Sunny Savita: And what… what he wanted to do, what Gangadhar wanted to do, actually. So, Gangadhar basically wanted to fine-tune one model, right? So, Gangadhar is having two options, okay? So, Gangadhar is working, let's say, in one of the pharma companies, right? Let's say one of the pharma companies, I can write any XYZ name.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the name of the pharma company. Now, what Gangadhar wants to do… so, Gangadhar basically wants to fine-tune the model, okay? Or, he's having, like, various, basically approaches.
Sunny Savita: So, what is a problem statement? The problem statement is very, very simple. So, problem statement, basically, so…
Sunny Savita: Gangadhar's manager, actually. So, he's asking to the Gangadhar, actually, he's an AI engineer, okay? So, he's asking to the Gangadhar, so we have lots of pharma data.
Sunny Savita: Okay? We have lots of Parma data.
Sunny Savita: Now, basically, whatever models we have, whether it's, whatever different, different models we have, right? So, those models is not able to answer anything related to our pharma data, okay?
Sunny Savita: Or it is very, like, basically, it is hallucinating very much. So whenever we are asking anything related to our domain-specific data, so it is hallucinating very much.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so… if they're asking any question, if they ask, Any… Domain is specific.
Sunny Savita: caution.
Sunny Savita: Right? If they ask any domain-specific question to the model, Right? LLM model.
Sunny Savita: So, model, actually, model.
Sunny Savita: Hallucinating Hallucinating, very much.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, over here, gangadhar managers said, right? So, Gangadhar manager said, we have lots of
Sunny Savita: pharma data. If we… if they ask any sort of a domain-specific question, so model is hallucinating very much. So now Gangadhar is basically thinking, okay, so what we can do? What we can do with that type of… with that data, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, what we can do, basically, for solving this particular, problem statement. So, the first thing, basically, they can train their own model, okay? Company can train
Sunny Savita: Their own model.
Sunny Savita: But guys, this particular approach is a very expensive approach.
Sunny Savita: Right? This particular approach is a very expensive approach. Now, the second, basically, what they can do, they can fine-tune the model.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: They can perform the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Of the model. And the fine-tuning, basically, they can take
Sunny Savita: they can take any pre-trained model, right? They can take any pre-trained model, and on top of that, basically, they can perform the fine-tuning, right? They can, again, retrain.
Sunny Savita: Retrain the model.
Sunny Savita: Using the pharma data.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: The third approach, basically, they can develop the rack system on top of it, right?
Sunny Savita: So, developed the RAG system.
Sunny Savita: So, develop the rack system basically means what? So they can take… Okay, they can take any.
Sunny Savita: basically, Good model, okay, good.
Sunny Savita: A reasoning-based model.
Sunny Savita: Go to Reasoning-based model.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: good reasoning-based model, and on top of that, basically, they can build a RAC system, right?
Sunny Savita: So, RAG will learn later on, okay? We'll understand lag later on, but here, guys, as of now, we are going to be understanding about the fine-tuning, right? So, if these kind of problem statements are coming in the real time, in the real situation, then how to fine-tune the data, okay?
Sunny Savita: Then, how to fine-tune the data? Just a second, guys.
Sunny Savita: Where it went.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, how to fine-tune the data? It got deleted or what? No worries, guys, I think you got the… you got the idea, right? What I'm trying to say. Again, I will write that, right?
Sunny Savita: So here, basically, what I wanted to say, guys, I was saying, basically, so we have lots of approaches. The first approach, basically, fine-tuning
Sunny Savita: The second approach is a rack, right? So, as of now, we are trying to understand the fine-tuning, how to basically tweak the knowledge of the modern, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, tell me, guys, if we are going to be… now, tell me over here, guys, if we are going to be, basically train the model from scratch, so, it is a very time-consuming, and it's a very expensive approach, right? So, every company can do it.
Sunny Savita: Every company can afford that particular expense, no, right? So the better, option is the… what we can do. We can basically take a model, okay, and we can fine-tune that, right? So we can fine-tune that on our own data set. Now.
Sunny Savita: I think you understood, whatever I have written over the blackboard, okay? Now, here I'm writing a couple of more points. So, I'm writing over the new slide. The first thing, basically, we are going to be perform the…
Sunny Savita: Non-instruction fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Non-instruction fine-tuning. The second is called the instruction fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And the third is called the preference tuning.
Sunny Savita: Right? Preference tuning. Now, what is the meaning of the non-instruction fine-tuning, and when we are going to do that? So, the non-instru- when we are going to do the non-instruction fine-tuning, so whenever we have our raw data.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, whenever we have our raw data.
Sunny Savita: Right? So whenever we have a raw data, at that time, we are going to be… perform the non-instruction fine-tuning. Raw data means what? Raw data, basically, it could be available on any… in any PDF, right? It could be available in any DocX, right? Now, this could be available in any, basically PPT, or any text file.
Sunny Savita: Right? So the data basically can be available in any sort of a document, and on top of that, on top of that.
Sunny Savita: We are going to perform the fine-tuning. The second is called the instruction fine-tuning. So here, we are intentionally creating an instruction-based data.
Sunny Savita: So, here we are going to be create an input and output kind of data. So, in one column, we have an input, and in another column, basically, we have an output.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Output data. So, input and output, and
Sunny Savita: with that data, basically what we can do, we can perform the, instruction fine-tuning. The third type of fine-tuning is called the preference tuning. Now, over here, we have two columns. The first is the chosen, right? The selected column.
Sunny Savita: And the second is called… second is called the rejected one.
Sunny Savita: Right? Rejected one.
Sunny Savita: So, based on the preference, based on the human preference, right? So, again, we are going to train our model, so that is called a preference tuning. I think I already clarified all this thing in the previous classes, okay? So, now let's see if we have a raw data, okay, so how we can perform the fine-tuning with respect to the raw data.
Sunny Savita: So, before that, I was talking about, that, companies is asking about the fine-tuning and all. So, here again, I can write in a summarized form.
Sunny Savita: So, let's say we have a pharma data, okay? Now, this particular data, basically, it is available in a PDF format, okay? Now, on top of this particular data, on top of the PDF data, if I want to retrain my own model, right? So, on top of this PDF data, what I want to do, guys, I want to retrain
Sunny Savita: Hawk.
Sunny Savita: or fine-tune.
Sunny Savita: My own model.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, how we will do that? So, we are looking into that only, right? So, there is a person, Gangadhar, now, who is getting a data in the form of PDF, right? Inside the PDF, he's having a pharma data. The data could belong to any domain, right? I'm just taking an example, and on top of that particular data, we are going to be perform the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Okay, making sense to all of you? Tell me yes or no. Is it getting clear? Whatever I have explained so far, I hope this thing is getting clear to all of you. Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: I think I have shown you a couple of data set in the previous class, so if you will check out with my previous session, so I've shown you the non-instruction data, the data, basically, which we are using for the pre-training, right? So, if this thing is clear, please let me know so that I can proceed, right?
Sunny Savita: Namrita asking, please repeat preference tuning.
Sunny Savita: We'll discuss Nanavid.
Sunny Savita: ERI return, correct? Yes, sir.
Sunny Savita: Next Saturday, preference during.
Sunny Savita: So you will understand in a detail, don't worry.
Sunny Savita: Got it.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so, guys, now what we are doing, so here, guys, we are going to be collect a data first. So the data could be available in any document, as I said, but here I'm taking our data in a PDF only. So let me show you the data, and here is my data.
Sunny Savita: So, this is one pharma-specific data, okay? Can you see this particular data, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: This particular data. Now, on top of this data, we are going to train our model, okay? So, how many pages we have inside the data? Please let me know in the chat how many pages we have.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so guys, inside the dataset, basically, we have 6 pages, as you can see.
Sunny Savita: Right? But in a real time, we can have lots of data, okay? We can have 600 pages, 500 pages.
Sunny Savita: Whatever number of pages we can have. Okay, so I'll give you one of the assignments, where we will take 50 pages, 60 pages, 100 pages. You can, again, fine-tune on top of that data. But here, we are just learning the thing, we are understanding the thing. So I've just taken a small data set, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, just see, insert the data set. So, tell me, guys, this data is related to the pharma, yes or no? So, this data actually is related to one of the drug, right? So, one with… which one… with one of the drug. So, we are not going into the detail of it, because this is not our job. So, this is the job of the BA, right? Business analyst.
Sunny Savita: Or maybe business will explain to us, right? SME will explain to us what is this data. So this is not our job.
Sunny Savita: Right? So this is not our job, to understand the…
Sunny Savita: data, technically, right? Because we are not a scientist.
Sunny Savita: Okay, we are not going to be building medicines, right? So this is the job of the business analyst,
Sunny Savita: this is, not our job. Our job is basically to create an AI solution, okay? For that, we need to understand, the responses, questions, answers, and all. That's it, right? We no need to deep dive into that domain. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, what I'm doing over here, so I'm going to be, load this data inside the collab. So, here you can see the option for loading the data in the collab. So on any server, you can keep the data. If you are doing this thing in AWS, you can keep inside the S3, okay?
Sunny Savita: or anywhere you can keep this data, okay? On whatever server you are working, you can keep this particular data, right? Now, here, you can see we are able to load the data. So is it visible to all of you? Are we able to load the data? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what I'll do, after loading our data.
Sunny Savita: So, let me write some theoretical points over here, okay, before we come to the technical stuff, because, in the previous class, someone was saying, sir, can you mention, basically some comments, some, theory and all inside the notebook itself? So, if we are going to revise that thing, it will be easy for us, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, here, guys, what I'm doing.
Sunny Savita: So, let me keep the theoretical point, okay? I already prepared something. And guys, most of the code I already prepared, I'll copy and paste, okay? So, guys, here you can see what I return. Let's understand one by one.
Sunny Savita: What is this?
Sunny Savita: Okay, just a second, guys, wait.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the text, okay? This one.
Sunny Savita: Now, just read it out. So, here, guys, on Notebook 1, okay, I'll create 3 notebooks. The first notebook is belonging to the non-instruction causal LLM fine-tuning. The second, basically, is going to belong to the instruction fine-tuning, and the third is going to belong to the preference alignment, right? Now, tell me, guys,
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about the preference alignment, right? So, what are the techniques we have for the preference alignment?
Sunny Savita: RLHF, right? RLHFDPO, correct. You are right. So those techniques, we are going to be learned, right? Now, here, guys, what I'm doing… so, see, just read it out. So, what we are doing, we are going to be take a pharma data, there's going to be a raw text, and here we are going to be perform the non-instruction causal LLM fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: So, non-instruction causal LLM fine-tuning, or you can say domain adaptive continuous pre-training, right? So, it is a kind of pre-training also, where we are teaching to the model how to predict the next token. Now, what is the meaning of the causal, guys? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Causal, causal, I don't know how to pronounce it, but yeah.
Sunny Savita: The meaning of it, the meaning is the past cause future prediction, okay? So, based on the past, basically, token, we are going to be predict the future token. Now, what is our goal, guys? So, the goal is use a pharma domain PDF as a raw text data, and perform the non-insection causal language model fine-tuning using the LoRa and the QLORA.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so this entire thing is clear to all of you. Tell me, guys. Yes or no. If it is going to be clear, just let me know in the quick, in the chat.
Sunny Savita: Tell me fast.
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: Okay. Now, guys, what I'm doing, I'm putting into the second cell. So here, guys, just look over here. So, what is going to be a pipeline? So, this is the pipeline. So, first, we'll be having the pharma data. Then, we'll be extracting the data from the PDF, then we are doing some text cleaning and the normalization, okay? Then we are creating our data.
Sunny Savita: Then, guys, we are going to be… convert our data into the Hugging Face format, because we are using the Hugging Face over here for the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: But then, guys, we are doing a tokenization, we are doing a model loading, we are performing a fine-tuning using LoRa and QLoRa.
Sunny Savita: We are checking the validation laws, we are saving our adapter, okay? We are… we can save it over the Hugging Face Hub directly, we can reload that, and then we are doing inferencing. So this is our entire pipeline. Now, tell me, guys, is this pipeline is clear to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Is this pipeline is clear to all of you, tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: I hope, guys, this pipeline is clear. Now I am putting a few more points over here, so that your understanding will be clear with respect to the non-instruction and the instruction fine-tuning, okay? So here, guys, just read out this particular text also. Just go through with this text one by one.
Sunny Savita: what I written. So, here, what we are doing, we are doing a continuous pre-training, or non-instruction fine-tuning. Now, what is the differences between the continuous pre-training and the instruction fine-tuning? Now, one more thing over here. Okay, so guys, tell me, are we pre-trained the model, are we pre-training the model from scratch?
Sunny Savita: Are we pre-training the model from scratch? No, we are not going to be pre-training the model from scratch. We are going to, basically, fine-tune the model, right? Now, over here, guys, you can see, in this notebook, we are performing continuous pre-training on non-instruction fine-tuning on the raw data, okay?
Sunny Savita: So the model is given raw domain text, such as, okay, this is that text. Now, model then learns to predict the next token from this raw text, okay? So here, guys, these many things, model is going to be learned.
Sunny Savita: So, pharma language, drug names, medical terminology, scientific writing style, domain-specific sentence. So here, we are teaching, okay, so what we are teaching to our model, we are teaching, we are giving a domain-specific knowledge to our model, okay?
Sunny Savita: We are teaching a domain knowledge to the model. Now, however, the model is not explicitly taught how the answer to the user question, how to follow the instruction, how to respond in a QA format, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, for that, what we'll have to do, we'll have to perform the instruction fine-tuning. We're talking about the instruction fine-tuning, so data should be in this particular format. So, either we should have instruction input and output, or we should have message, or we should have the
Sunny Savita: a user message and the assistant message. So the data should be available inside this particular format for the instruction fine-tuning. Now, guys, over here, what we are going to do, we are going to be use the same model, right? So just, focus over here. Let me write all the points.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, what I'm going to do… so here, guys, I'm going to be mentioned. Now, this step is going to be important, just focus, okay? So, first, guys, what we will do, we are going to be…
Sunny Savita: We are going to be basically, perform the non-instruction fine-tuning, okay?
Sunny Savita: So I'm going to be writing step-by-step all the points, so just focus. So first, guys, what we will do, we'll perform the non-instruction.
Sunny Savita: None.
Sunny Savita: instruction.
Sunny Savita: fine-tuning, okay? Now, after that, guys, what I'll do…
Sunny Savita: After that, basically, after performing the non-instruction fine-tuning, on top of the same model, okay?
Sunny Savita: So here, let me copy this arrow, and let me put it over here.
Sunny Savita: So, on top of the same model, Okay.
Sunny Savita: On top of the… Same model, basically, right?
Sunny Savita: We'll save the model, right? After that, what I'll do, we'll save the model. Now, after that, guys, I'll…
Sunny Savita: Load the model.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Load the model, this particular model only, load the model.
Sunny Savita: And after loading the model, guys, what I'll do, I will… I will.
Sunny Savita: perform.
Sunny Savita: Instruction fine-tuning, instruction fine-tuning on… Same model.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Same model. Then, guys, after that, what I'll do, again, I will save my model, okay?
Sunny Savita: Will?
Sunny Savita: Save our model.
Sunny Savita: Right? And after that, guys, what I'll do, after saving the model, again, we'll load the same model, okay? Again, we'll load the
Sunny Savita: Same model.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Same model. And then what I'll do, guys, after loading the model, we'll perform the performance tuning on top of it.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: So will perform.
Sunny Savita: will perform the… preference.
Sunny Savita: Tuning.
Sunny Savita: on.
Sunny Savita: Top of it.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now here, guys, what we are going to do, so we are going to train the LoRa adapter.
Sunny Savita: Right? So what we are going to do, we are… Going to… train.
Sunny Savita: We are going to train the… LoRa adapter.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So we are going to be trained what? We are going to be trained the loader adapter. Now, tell me, guys, is this entire thing is clear or not to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Tell me yes or no. So, in this particular sequence only, we are going to be perform the fine-tuning of the model, okay?
Sunny Savita: And in the same way, basically, they have performed the fine-tuning of the GPT model, which we are using inside the chat GPT, right? And if we are working in any enterprise, right? So, basically, we can take a same approach also.
Sunny Savita: So, directly, we can use the non-instruction fine-tuned model, or else we can use the instruction fine-tuned model, or on top of it, we can perform the preference tuning also, and we can utilize that model also.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? So, in the enterprise also, we can take a same approach, okay? Now, if we're talking about the data set, so here, guys, for the non-instruction fine-tuning, we have a raw data.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Raw data. Now, we're talking about the instruction fine-tuning, so here, basically, we'll be having a question and answer data. So, we'll have to create this particular data explicitly.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Explicitly, we'll have to create this particular data. Now, we're talking about the preference tuning, guys. Again, explicitly, we'll have to create the chosen and the rejected data, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, explicitly, we'll have to create this particular data. So, as of now, we just have our raw data.
Sunny Savita: But guys, we'll create this question answer data and the chosen and the rejected data. Either you can do it manually, okay, or else you can basically do it with the help of AI also. Now, one question, we're talking about the chat GPT, right? So, how they have created this instruction fine-tune data? How did they got this instruction fine-tune data? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: So they got the instruction fine-tuned data from the internet itself, from the different, different, sources, Reddit data, okay? The people are discussing, on a different, different forum, like Stack Overflow, Quora, right? So they took the data from there itself. So the question-answer data, they took from the different, different places. Got it? Great.
Sunny Savita: Yes, you are right. So big.
Sunny Savita: Now, here, guys, what we are doing, so, let me do one thing.
Sunny Savita: let me, basically perform the fine-tuning now. So, I hope, guys, this entire theory is clear. So, how's the session is going on? Is it an interesting one? Are you learning so many things now? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so… great, guys.
Sunny Savita: Guys, until you can check out this entire critical point, taking 2 minute outbreak, okay? Getting one call, taking 2 minute outbreak. Just, look into this theoretical points, okay? Wait.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so let's start, let's begin again. I hope, guys, you have gone through this notebook, and you understood the theoretical points over here. So, first of all, we'll have to install a couple of library, right? So, let me show you all the libraries, and what a library is required over here.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, I'm, mentioning the library, and I'm mentioning the description also of all those li- all the library, okay? So, we require the PyMu PDF to parse the data from the PDF, right? Then we require the dataset library, transformer, accelerate, path, bits and Bytes, and sentence piece.
Sunny Savita: So, we'll discuss each and everything, then why, these libraries is required. So, once I will utilize it, okay, at that time, you will got it.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? So, let me execute it, let me install all the libraries, okay? So, guys, you have a notebook, you can follow to me, like, all together, okay? So, you can check out the notebook simultaneously.
Sunny Savita: So, whatever coming on to you, Hannah, fine-tune how we can do that.
Sunny Savita: LLM with LLM fine-tuned means I didn't understand that point, Sunil.
Sunny Savita: Guys, if you have any specific question, you can ask me in a doubt session, okay? So, there I'll explain.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, what I'm doing… so this, library is getting installed, until what I can do, until I can import all the required packages, okay? So I'm going to be import the OS and the, regular expression, then I'm going to be importing the match, JSON, random, Unicode data, okay, data classes, list, any…
Sunny Savita: Then, guys, we have other import statements, like fits, okay, torch, dataset, dataset date, and this is the, like, this is related to the, basically model, okay? And this is related to the PEFT parameter efficient fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: So once we are going to be utilized all these packages, at that time, you will get a clear-cut understanding that why we have imported all this, why we have imported all this module, okay? Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Is it getting clear to all of you?
Sunny Savita: So once I will utilize it inside the code, you will get a more understanding. Now, this, basically, code is going to be a little bit, basically, typical, right? For the first-time performer, right? If you're going to be fine-tuned first time, then, basically, you might, feel
Sunny Savita: Like, some terms is, like, unknown or something like that, right? So be patient, perform the fine-tuning, and then later on, we can understand that part also, okay? So, I will, explain you, step by step, all that thing, and later on, again, basically, we are going to be revising. Correct, Gaurav, overwhelming.
Sunny Savita: Now, let me import it, and after importing it, guys, what I'll do, I will, load my dataset, okay? So, let it complete.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Now, guys, here we have imported all the libraries, right? It might take some time, and please make sure that, guys, you have connected with your GPU. Now, one more thing, guys, I'm going to do over here. I'm going to be write all the configuration at the one place, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, this is my other configuration. I hope this entire configuration is visible to all of you, right? So, you can see, we have a config class, this is the data class, right? It is a Pythonic class only.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now inside that, we have a multiple, basically, parameters. So, PDF path, model name, output directory, adapter directory, okay, process data.
Sunny Savita: then this is related to the text pre-processing, this is related to the training, this is related to the LoRa.
Sunny Savita: Again, this is related to the training, right? So, all the parameters, basically, I'm keeping at the single place. Getting my point? So generally, for this kind of thing, in the model coding, we are going to create a configuration file, right? Now, if we're talking about the classes, so in the Python, basically, we have a different, different classes. So, let me write the name over here. I don't know you're familiar or not.
Sunny Savita: But let me write a name. The first is called the data class, okay? Generally, we utilize this particular class for the configuration purpose. The second kind of class in NM class, okay? So for the validation purpose, for the configuration purpose, again, we utilize this class. The third kind of class is called the pedantic class.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so for the validation purpose, okay, we utilize this particular class. Then the next class, basically, it's a typed class, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, type dig class, again, we use it for the validation purpose. Then, we have another class, so abstract class.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, we have a different, different classes in a Python, and we generally utilize these particular classes for the configuration purpose, and for the data validation purpose. Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So, if you're not familiar with all these classes, you will get to know in the upcoming session, once we are going to be utilized in our projects, okay? So, once I start with my project, so somewhere, we are going to be using the different, different classes.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Is this point going to be clear?
Sunny Savita: Okay. Now here, guys, you can see, so this is the entire configuration, I'm going to be keep it at the single place. So let me run it, let me execute it, and let me show you how this configuration look like. So, I'm going to be create an object of this config, okay? And after that, guys, see, I got the object of the config. Now, what I'll do, guys, I'll show you.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so here you can see, this is the entire configuration.
Sunny Savita: Understood? Inside that, we have all the library. If I'm writing like this, if I'm going to be write like this, okay, config and the parameter name, so I will get the value of that particular parameter.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? Now here, let's say if I'm going to write anything, guys, anything. Let's say if I'm going to be right, config.processDirectory, okay? So I'm getting the process directory. So till here, everything is fine, everything is clear, tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: Okay, so guys, I hope this directory… sorry, this particular code is clear to all of you. It is a very simple code, if you understand the Python.
Sunny Savita: Now, what I'm doing, guys, I'm just going to be, basically, create a directory, okay? So, whatever directory name I have written over here, whatever directory path I have given over here, right? So I'm going to be create all this directory.
Sunny Savita: So, first of all, guys, what I'll do, I will keep my data. Okay, so this is my data path. Here, you can see, I'll just simply copy the path, okay? And after copying the path, I'll keep it over here. So this is my path, this path of my data, right? PDF path.
Sunny Savita: Now, this is my model name. You can utilize any model, guys, but here, I just wanted to show you the…
Sunny Savita: basically practical, okay? So for the POC purpose, for the practical purpose, I'm taking this particular model, right? But guys, you can take any sort of a model, I don't have any issue, even you can upgrade your collab.
Sunny Savita: And you can take any sort of a model, okay? Now, this is our output directory, so I'm going to recreate this particular directory over here. Either I can create manually, or I can create using the code itself, right? So let me show you how to create that.
Sunny Savita: Now, where we are going to be utilizing this parameter, we'll understand that, okay? Once we'll move ahead into the code, you will get to know about it.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, what I'm going to do, so here, I'm going to be create the directory. So this is the code for creating a directory, guys. Let me show you, see.
Sunny Savita: So, os.makeDirectory, config.output directory, exists OK true. So, if it is already existing, then it will not give me any error. Still, it will pros… it will run, execute, it will… still, it will execute this particular command.
Sunny Savita: So if I'm going to be executed, guys, so all this library will be created over here. So let me refresh it, and let me show you all the directory. So, can you see, guys, all the directory? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Is it getting clear to all of you how to create this directory?
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: So I hope, guys, this entire directory creation is clear.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what I'll do… so after that, guys, I can check that whatever parameter we have. So, as of now, you can see we are getting this configuration into this particular form. Now, I can get it into the JSON form also. So, I can show you how you can get it into the JSON form, right? So, I have one more line of code.
Sunny Savita: I can paste it over here. So, I can, basically pass this config to this dict method, okay, ASDICT, and I can convert into the JSON. So once I'll print this particular thing, now here you will get the JSON format of all the parameter.
Sunny Savita: Now, where this… all the parameter is being used, you will get it in some time, okay?
Sunny Savita: Understood, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: So, where this, all the parameter is going to be used, you will understand in some time. First of all, understand this, this thing. So, the first parameter is a PDF path, second is a model name, output directory, adapter directory, process data directory, right?
Sunny Savita: So, as of now, we understood about this particular parameter, that where it is being used, right? Rest of the parameter, you will understand. Once we'll proceed ahead, okay?
Sunny Savita: Great, guys. So, Sundar, same thing I'm saying now, right? So, once we will proceed with the code itself, automatically you will get where all this parameter and all the configuration is being used. Why I need to explain you this parameter right now, okay?
Sunny Savita: As of now, tell me. Number of training epoch, this is the best size, this is the evaluation badge. Let me come on to that part. Now, why you are in hurry, guys.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, guys, let me explain everything in my pace. Be in this session, okay, till the end. Everything you will get, right? If something you are not getting, you can ask in a doubt session. Or else, we'll discuss later on, okay? I can give you the quick revision of that. Again, I'm saying, right, see, there are so many things.
Sunny Savita: So, no need to understand everything, right? First, iterate onto the, like, iterate onto the solution.
Sunny Savita: at least if you're getting 50% to 70%, that is fine. Then, again, revise the thing. Again, try to understand. And here I am, right, to explain you, like, all the things to solving the doubts and all.
Sunny Savita: So we'll discuss everything one by one. Got it, Sundar? Great.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, over here, you can see, so we are able to understand till the configuration part, configuration, till the configuration only, right? Now, what I'll do, guys, I'll quickly check whether the data is available or not, whether the PDF file is available or not.
Sunny Savita: For that, I'm quickly running one sanity check. So here, guys, I have one code snippet, I'm pasting it over here.
Sunny Savita: Let me quickly check, okay? So, just give me a moment. Let me quickly check.
Sunny Savita: Just a second, guys.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so here I can paste that code. I think I'm,
Sunny Savita: Facing some issue with the notebook. I think so many people are accessing this notebook simultaneously, no?
Sunny Savita: So it is lagging, guys, just a second.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, so this is the code, guys, where I can check whether this data is available or not. A quick sanity check over here, okay? So, here, the message is PDF found. We have a PDF over here, right? Now, guys, what is the next thing? What I'll do over here? Can anyone tell me what we are going to do over here?
Sunny Savita: Tell me fast, guys, what we are doing over here. What will be the next step?
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: So here, guys, we are going to be extract the data from the PDF.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So we are going to be extract the data from the PDF. For extracting the data from the PDF, now here you can see this is the code, right? So I written one function, the function name is extractPDFP pages.
Sunny Savita: So I'll provide the PDF path over here, okay? I will collect the pages, I will collect the PDF data inside this particular, list, okay?
Sunny Savita: Then what I'll do, guys, I'll open the PDF, okay, I'll open the PDF path, I will iterate over the pages, right? Now, whatever pages we have, right, whatever pages we have inside the PDF, I'm going to be collect all those data inside the text.
Sunny Savita: Then, guys, after that, what I'll do, I'm going to be append inside this particular list. What all things I'm going to be append? I'm going to be append the page index, I'm going to be append the text, and I'm going to be append the character count.
Sunny Savita: Right? So this is a sweet and simple function I can execute. Getting my point? Now, guys, whenever we're talking about the collab, right? So the collab, actually, it is giving us one feature.
Sunny Savita: So, directly you can check out… directly you can chat with the Gemini model over here, right? So, once you will open the… once you will click on the Gemini icon, this Gemini icon, right? So, automatically, it will open this chat.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so let's say if you're not able to get anything. Let's say if you're not able to get anything inside the notebook. So what you can do, guys, you can simply take this code snippet, you can paste it over here, and you can ask.
Sunny Savita: Can you explain me… This code in a simple language.
Sunny Savita: Okay? In a simple language, see? So, once I'll paste this particular code over here, and once I'll ask to the gym name, okay? So, it will generate the response. It will explain me the entire code base over here. Now, tell me, guys, who is providing this collab? Who is the owner of the collab?
Sunny Savita: Who is the owner of the collab?
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: So Google is providing us a collab, right? So the Jimny model is being provided by the collab itself. So, can you see the entire explanation of this particular code snippet? Is it visible to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, is it visible to all of you? So you can read it out. You can quickly read it out, this entire explanation. So let's code define a Python function that helps you to get the ex… to get the text out of the PDF, okay? So this is the function definition. It's going to be written this, list of dictionary.
Sunny Savita: Okay? We are going to be collect all the data inside the pages, right? It's going to be open the path of the file, then we are going to be iterate over the PDF pages, then we are collecting the text from there, and we are stripping the text.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Then we are going to be append over here. So this is my return format, right? And then, finally, we are going to be return. So if you're going to be stuck anywhere, okay, if you're going to be stuck anywhere, then you can take a help of this chatbot.
Sunny Savita: Right? Even you can ask, so, can you give me, in a summarized form, can you give me this explanation?
Sunny Savita: In a summarized form.
Sunny Savita: Right? So…
Sunny Savita: it will provide you in a summarized form also. So in any way, basically, you can check out with the code, and you will get that particular response. So this feature will be very, very useful for the beginner, okay, who is not able to understand the code in a single go. Making sense to all of you, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Tell me? Yes? Okay, great. Now, what we are doing, guys, we are going to be load the PDF, right? So, after loading the PDF, see, here is the, basically math function. Now, tell me, guys, from where we are going to be load the path of the PDF.
Sunny Savita: So we're talking about the path of the PDF, so that particular path we will be getting from the config itself. So here I will write the config, and then I'll write the PDF,
Sunny Savita: Underscore path. Now, see, guys, this is our PDF path, okay? I'll provide this PDF path over here.
Sunny Savita: And after that, guys, what I'll be doing, after that, basically, I'll be loading my data. So, can you see, guys, are we able to load the data? Is it visible to all of you?
Sunny Savita: So we are able to load the entire data from the PDF, okay? PIMU PDF. Now, what I'm doing over here, so I'm going to be… I'm going to be keep this data inside the variable, right? So this is what? This is my PDF pages. So, till here, everything is fine, everything is clear, how to load the data from the PDF. Tell me, guys.
Sunny Savita: Are you getting whatever I'm trying to explain over here? So, how's the session? Are you liking the session? Are you understanding everything? It's very simple.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so after that, guys, what is the next step?
Sunny Savita: After that, what is the next step? So, after that, basically, we are going to be, basically, clean the data, okay? So, first of all, let me check, about the data, okay? So, let me check with the data.
Sunny Savita: So, there is some print statement, which will give you the detail of the data. So, we have total 6 pages, and this is a page-wise breakdown. So, in first page, we have this much of character, in second page, this third, fourth, fifth, and sixth. So, this is some of the information about the… this is some of the information of what? This is some of the information about the data, right?
Sunny Savita: So, I hope, guys, still here, everything is fine. Now, if you want to check out the data, right, so how you can check out? So, you can simply check out the first page, okay? So, this is the first page. Now, see, this is the first page of the data.
Sunny Savita: Likewise, you can check out the different, different other pages. Making sense? Is it getting clear to all of you? Tell me yes or no. Now, after that, guys, which step we are going to be taking? Can anyone tell me? After that, basically, we are going to be perform the text cleaning.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, here you can see, inside this particular data, we could be… we could have so much anomaly.
Sunny Savita: We could have so much anomaly, and the data is not clean, there is so much spaces or something, right? So we wanted to clean that particular data. So here, guys, the sixth step is going to be a cleaning of the data.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, after that, guys, what I'll do, see, this cleaning, actually, it is a very subjective thing. It depends on the data-to-data. What kind of cleaning is required.
Sunny Savita: I can give you a very simple example. Let's say this is my room, okay? And you also have a room in your house. So, both room is not required, same kind of cleaning.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? So, in my room, let's say there is a dust in the corner.
Sunny Savita: there is a dust on the fan… fan, right? Let's say there is a… there is some cockroaches, right? Not cockroach in the party. I'm talking about the cockroaches, right? So there is some cockroaches in the, like, room, in the entire room.
Sunny Savita: or there is some, like, cloths here and there, basically, on the different, different chairs, right? So, your room situation and my room situation both are different.
Sunny Savita: Right? It could be different. So, similar to that, the data, basically different. So, your data is different, mine data is different. So, cleaning, actually, it's a very subjective thing. But still, we need to understand some of the fundamental of the cleaning, right? Means, basically, you can understand that. It's a, like, self-explanatory thing, right?
Sunny Savita: So you can check out, you can explore that thing via chat GPT or, basically cloud and all, okay? Feel free to do that.
Sunny Savita: Or else, you can check out, right? I think in the previous batch, I took one session on top of that. The notebook would be there, right? So cleaning, basically, it's a very basic thing, and basically, it is a very subjective thing, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, guys, see, I did some basic cleaning over here. So, let me show you all the steps, basically, what all cleaning I have performed.
Sunny Savita: So here is all the steps with respect to the cleaning.
Sunny Savita: So, cleaning-wise, I have normalized the data, I have removed the zero character, okay? Removed the hidden marker if anything is there. After that, I have normalized the space, blank line, right? Then I have split it into the paragraph, whatever paragraph we have.
Sunny Savita: Then we have removed the line, okay, inside the paragraph, the unnecessary line, okay? Then, after that, now we are normalizing the spaces also, and then we are going to rebuild the clean text, right? So this is some of the basic steps we are taking with respect to the claim. You can take little more, you can remove the straw board and all, everything. It's up to you, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, guys, for the clinic, we are going to be use the… what we are going to be used? We are going to be using the regular expression, right? So, this is the code logic related to the regular expression. I'll keep the entire code in front of you.
Sunny Savita: Then you can look into it, look into that particular code, and we can perform the quick cleaning of the data.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so this kind of cleaning and all the basic cleaning, you can easily understand using the chat GPT and the cloud. Making sense?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Yes or no? Now, guys, let's say we are not doing a cleaning. So, in that case, model could be overload.
Sunny Savita: It's… it can predict the unnecessary thing, which is not required to us.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: It can give us the unnecessary thing, which is not required to us.
Sunny Savita: Got it?
Sunny Savita: So, this basic cleaning I have done, just to keep, my data in my mind, that what all spaces, or the, paragraph issues, and the, basically.
Sunny Savita: You can see the line spacing-related issue. So, according to that, basically, I did that particular, text cleaning over here, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, let's take a break, okay? Quick dinner break, and after that, I'll do the cleaning of the data, and I'll show you the clean data, and how we are going to prepare that particular data for the fine-tuning, and finally, we'll do the fine-tuning, okay?
Sunny Savita: In the real time, how we can decide, in the same way you can decide.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, let's say in your data, there are so many anomaly words, stop word, you can remove that. You can, convert this, like, uppercase into the lower cases, you can remove the spaces, okay, some of the extra lines and all. So, in the same way, basically, you're going to be thinking. Again, I'm saying it's a very subjective thing.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point.
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: Yeah. So guys, can we take a break? Just give me a quick thumbs up, if you are ready for the break.
Sunny Savita: Okay. So, are you liking the session? Are you liking the entire process? And in the same way, basically, we are doing in a real time also. So, in whatever company, in whatever enterprise you are doing, you are following the same steps, okay? Same kind of step.
Sunny Savita: Fight.
Sunny Savita: So, let's take a break, and after that, guys, again, I will start the session. So, let me put the timer.
Sunny Savita: Timer for the… 14.
Sunny Savita: minute.
Sunny Savita: So, no, Mahesh, I'm not going faster. See, understand, Mahesh. See, if I'm going line by line, or, like, slow, then this one, we will not be able to cover the thing.
Sunny Savita: Understand, please. Okay. Do we want it to learn for entire two-year? 1 year, two year?
Sunny Savita: or quickly you wanted to learn the thing, and you wanted to, like, revise, and then basically switch into the job, right? So…
Sunny Savita: Understand, please. So, whatever pace I'm going, it is a perfect one.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, if, let's say, you're not getting anything, or you're getting stuck somewhere, then you can ask in a doubt session. I think my speed is okay. Please try to match with this particular speed, okay? Try to understand this particular speed. I am already sharing the code and all everything with you.
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so let's put the timer, and then again, we'll start. Thank you, guys.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so… I hope everyone is back. Can we start with the session?
Sunny Savita: Give me a quick confirmation in the chat.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, have you gone through with this notebook? Have you looked into this notebook?
Sunny Savita: Okay, so we were talking about the… we were talking about the text cleaning.
Sunny Savita: Now, let's do one thing, guys. Let's try to perform the text cleaning. So, for the text cleaning, basically, I have a method.
Sunny Savita: So, let me give you the method. The first method, basically, for normalizing the text. Okay, normalizing the Unicode, basically, Unicode character.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And the second method, basically, is going to be for the PDF cleaning text. Okay? PDF text cleaning. So, clean PDF text. So, we have two methods.
Sunny Savita: This is the first method, this is the first method, and then this is the second method. Got it? So, as I told you, that we can take a help of the AI to understand this entire code, so what I can do, in front of you only, I can again open the Gemini.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and again, I can copy the code, the same one, and I can paste it over here, and I can check.
Sunny Savita: So, I can ask to the Germani, can you… Explain.
Sunny Savita: Meet this code.
Sunny Savita: And can you?
Sunny Savita: explain me the NFKC, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, once I'll ask to the Gemini, once I'll ask you those… once I will ask to this, basically, bot itself, right? So, let's see what answer I'll be getting over here. So, let me… okay, let's see now. So, here it is saying, suddenly, let's break down the clean function, clean PDF text. So, which…
Sunny Savita: Okay, so this, talking about this particular…
Sunny Savita: Here, guys, you can see it is talk… it is, like, explaining this entire code itself, right? So you can check out with this entire expression and all, you can do the same thing inside your collab also.
Sunny Savita: Now, why I pasted this, over here, or why I given this particular code snippet to the Gemini? Just for this particular term. So, NFKC is what? NFKC stands for the normalization from
Sunny Savita: compatibility composition. It is one of the several Unicode normalization forms, okay? So, guys, whenever we… so…
Sunny Savita: Okay, again, I can reconnect. So whenever, basically, we are going to be load any data, okay, so there, basically, we generally get the Unicode errors, right? So for removing that Unicode error, actually, we utilize this, normalization thing, right?
Sunny Savita: So, over here, guys, you can see, I can give you one more example. So, this is one of the examples. Let me paste it over here with respect to this normalization itself.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, example, basically, AMPK. So, between the, character, basically, we can have, spaces. Okay, we can have the spaces. So, that, basically, character, this kind of words, actually, it gives the error. Okay, Unicode kind of error.
Sunny Savita: To resolve this thing, basically, we normalize the Unicore, okay? One of the text cleaning techniques. You can, again, explore the different, different text cleaning approaches according to the PDF, according to the docs, CSV file, right? So, for each and every document, this kind of technique is going to be different. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Now, here, what I'm doing, let me execute this.
Sunny Savita: And let me execute this function also. So here is the entire description of each and every, basically line of code, whatever we are going to be executed. I'll come to that.
Sunny Savita: Now, let me clean the data. So, how to clean the data? For that, basically, I required the list, okay? There, basically, I can capture the data. So, I created a list. The list is a clean pages, okay? Now, what I'll do, guys, so I'll iterate on top of the PDF pages.
Sunny Savita: Do you remember, guys, we had the PDF pages, let me show you that.
Sunny Savita: So, here, basically, you can see all the PDF pages, okay? We had all the PDF pages. We are going to be iterate on top of these PDF pages. I'll get the PDF page. Sorry, I will get my page. Then I'll pass… I'm passing this… I'm passing the text from this page to this particular method. Clean PDF text, okay?
Sunny Savita: Then after that, guys, what I'm doing, after that, basically, I'll be getting a clean text, and this particular clean text I'm going to be append where? Inside this list, the list which I created over here.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no? So, what I will call, I will call this CleanPDF Text. Now, let's see what all things we have inside this particular functions, okay? So, inside this CleanPDF Text, the first thing we are going to be normalize the Unicode, right? So, clean raw PDF text while we're preserving the meaningful scientific content.
Sunny Savita: Now, here the next is going to be text replace and text replace. Again, this is what, here you can see, remove Jiro with a non-printing character, often found in the PDFs, okay?
Sunny Savita: it is a special hidden character, which we have to be removed, so whenever we are going to be load the data from the PDF, so this kind of, hidden character in the girow width space, you will get, right? So, I written some sort of a description, you can read it out, this description.
Sunny Savita: Then, guys, here you can see hypertendent line breaks, for example. Okay, so if any line break is there with respect to any word, so we are going to be… handle that also.
Sunny Savita: So, multiple spaces tabs, we are going to handle that. Repeated blank lines, we are going to handle that. Okay, standalone page number. If there are any standalone page number inside any line, we are going to handle that.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now preserve the paragraph boundary, but remove line wrapping, so we are going to be formatting the data a little bit, right? So, after that, after performing all this thing only, we'll be getting a clear, clean paragraph, right? So, we are going to be written this particular paragraph, the clean paragraph, okay? So this is the cleaning process. Getting my point?
Sunny Savita: Now, let me execute it, and let me show you what kind of cleaning data I'll be getting. So, here, inside this clean pages, you will get the clean data now.
Sunny Savita: So this is the clean data, okay? Now, we can check it out, that data, so how the text looks like, so I can check out with respect to the first page, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, this is the data with respect to the first page. From the first page itself, now, this is what, guys, this is the clean data. So, making sense to all of you, tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Tell me. Yes? I hope.
Sunny Savita: this entire thing is going to be clear, okay? It's a cleaning process of the data. So just look into this step, you will get all the things from your end itself, because it's a self-explanatory thing, right? But it's still, I have explained to you that step by step.
Sunny Savita: Now, what is the next thing? Okay, so what I can do, guys, after that, there is one more step which I need to perform. So, let me take that code also. So, here is the code, guys.
Sunny Savita: Now, inside this code, what we are doing, we are going to be split clean pages into the paragraphs, okay? So, if you remember, if you will, like, go through with my previous session, so there I have shown you a couple of pre-trained data sets, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, this is one of the pre-trained datasets, guys. Did I show you this dataset in my previous class, this wiki dataset?
Sunny Savita: Now, if you will look into this data set, can you tell me the column?
Sunny Savita: which column I have over here.
Sunny Savita: So the column name is the text column.
Sunny Savita: Okay? What's a column name, guys? Column name is a text column. So, we're talking about the pre-trained data side, so inside the pre-trained data side, which column is required?
Sunny Savita: Which column is required to perform this non-instruction fine-tuning?
Sunny Savita: Tell me first. So, we require this text column, okay? Now, here we have… here I have another example, so let me show you one more dataset, see?
Sunny Savita: This is one more dataset, guys. The dataset name is what? Wikipedia, okay? It is from the Wikimedia. Now, I can show you one more dataset now, see? This is one more dataset, guys. So, the dataset name is what?
Sunny Savita: the dataset name is going to be. Here, you can see.
Sunny Savita: This FinBab, okay? Now, this… all the data set is… it is for the pre-training. Now, if you will look into this particular data set, so you will find out the text column.
Sunny Savita: See, text column is present here also. Text column is present, here also, inside this dataset. Text column is, present here also.
Sunny Savita: Okay, inside this dataset. So we have to pre-process, we have to format our data in such a way that text column should be there. See, again, column name is not mandatory, you can keep any name, but again, we are following the same convention.
Sunny Savita: We are following what? We are following the same convention, okay? So, here, what I've did, guys, what I've done. So, we have a data. Okay, so here, if you will look into the clean pages, so this is my clean pages.
Sunny Savita: Alright, this might clean.
Sunny Savita: What is this?
Sunny Savita: Okay, this is my clean pages. Let me run it inside the code shell again.
Sunny Savita: So, see, guys, this is my clean pages, okay? After the cleaning, basically, we are getting a data. Now, what I will do.
Sunny Savita: Again, I will perform some, processing on top of it, okay? And what I'll do, I will format my data in such a way that I will be having a text column, and along with that, we'll be having some metadata also, okay? So that metadata is not required for the fine-tuning, just for the knowledge per… means just for the information purpose, okay? So what I'm doing, guys, now, see.
Sunny Savita: So, here I'm iterating on top of the clean pages, okay? Again, I'm going… I'm checking, is there any double space or not inside the, data, okay? Double slash means, double slash n means double line, right? Now, on top of that, basically, what we are doing, we are going to be split the data, so we are getting a paragraph.
Sunny Savita: Now, here what we are checking, we are checking, okay? So, minimum character. Minimum character means what? So, if my paragraph is less than this much of character, then I'm not going to be retained that particular paragraph. I'm removing that.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point. So, here I am mentioning some sort of a character, minimum character. So, how much, guys? I mentioned the 80 character. Even I mentioned the same thing inside the pre-processing also. Now, again, it is a subjective thing.
Sunny Savita: You can keep it 30, 20, 10, right? So, less than this one, I'm not going to be keep… keep the data inside my text column.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point. Now, let's say, if I'm talking about this particular sentence.
Sunny Savita: this particular sentence. Now, tell me, what is the length of this sentence? We're talking about the length of this sentence.
Sunny Savita: What is the length of it?
Sunny Savita: the length of this sentence is going to be 35, right? Now, tell me, guys, should I… do I need to keep this much of data inside my text column?
Sunny Savita: This data… this much of data could be anything. This much of data could be any heading.
Sunny Savita: Right? Or any, basically, very short information. So whenever I'm creating my text column, so I don't require this much of shorter sentence, okay? I'm filtering out. It is up to you, like, how much you are keeping, right? So I cap the IT, which is like a balancing the thing, right?
Sunny Savita: So, here what I'm putting, I'm putting the, condition, if
Sunny Savita: length of the paragraph is going to be minimum of character, which is 80, right? So, I'm continuing. I'm not going to add that data inside my list.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Then, guys, again, I'm going to be normalize it, and finally, this is my record.
Sunny Savita: This is what? This is my clean and the final record, okay? Now, once I'll execute it, see, this is my function. Now, this, particular, basically, to this particular function, I'll pass my data. So here is my clean pages, then minimum of character, so this much of character we are going to be pass.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, again, I have already defined inside the configuration also, so it is AT only.
Sunny Savita: So, I'm not going to be keep too short data inside my text column, right? So, let me execute it. Now, here I will show you the paragraph record. So, let me iterate on top of it, and let me show you the detail of the paragraph. This is my final data, guys, which I'm going to be used for the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: So, see, total paragraph, 9 records are there. So, record 0, page 1, character 5575. Okay, this is my first paragraph, second, third, and all. So, this is the data which I'm going to be utilized for what? For the fine-tuning. Now, tell me, guys, still here, everything is fine, everything is clear.
Sunny Savita: Now, here I have to edit the data inside this record dictionary, okay? Record dictionary. Now, let me show you. See, this is my dictionary. Now, this particular data is a clean one, which I am going to be utilizing for the final fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Now, tell me, guys, everything is getting clear over here.
Sunny Savita: Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: So, let me put the records… okay, record is over here. So, this particular data, basically, we are going to be use it for what? For the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: So, here we are going to iterate paragraph record, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, let me check where we are going to be append all the results. Your record is there. Okay, we are going to be added in the form of… okay, records we are going to be… okay.
Sunny Savita: So inside this paragraph record, basically, inside this particular variable, you will be getting your entire data. So let me delete this, and let me show you the entire data, basically, which, finally, we are going to be used after cleaning for the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Clear or not? Is it getting clear?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, yes, one paragraph is equal to one record, one row. Now, this data is a Hugging Face-compatible data.
Sunny Savita: This data is a Hugging Face compatible data.
Sunny Savita: No. This data is not a Hugging Face compatible so far, right? So, first, we'll have to be keep it Hugging Face compatible. Now, before that, guys, let me show you one more line of code, okay, and then I can explain you one by one. So what I return over here, see.
Sunny Savita: So, save, extract, and clean corpus for the audibility, right? So, we are going to be save that, clean data somewhere. So, in the real project, always save intermediate data set, so this helps with the reproducibility, debugging, and the compliance review, okay? Very obvious practice.
Sunny Savita: So what I'm doing, guys, so I created this particular directory, if you remember.
Sunny Savita: If you remember, I created this particular directory, this one. So this is my first directory, and this is my second directory. Now, why I created this directory? So this… I created this particular directory to keep my data. So, I'm keeping the process data inside one, okay? So, process…
Sunny Savita: Yeah, so I'm keeping what, guys? I'm going to be keep the process data inside the directory. So, I will be having two files. So, first, PDF pages raw, okay? This is the raw data, right? Then, second is the process data, okay? Pharma, paragraph, process data. Okay, so let me rename it.
Sunny Savita: pharma paragraph process data. Now, how we are going to be stored the data? We are going to be stored the data in the JSON format. Now, what is this JSONL? JSON L means JSON with the new line.
Sunny Savita: Okay, JSON data with the new line, right? So, JSNL, in this particular format, we are going to be save the data, and we are going to be write the data using this particular code snippet, and where this data will be available, this data will be available inside this particular folder. Now, once I will execute it, guys, so I will be getting this intermediate data.
Sunny Savita: Now, this is my final data, which I'm going to be using for the fine-tuning purpose. I can download this data, so that later on also, I can utilize it anywhere. Okay, or else I can keep it over the hugging phase, okay? So now industry also, we are following a same approach.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, we are, going to be process the data, and that data we are saving somewhere in some location, okay? So, that is called my intermediate data. Now, what I'll do, guys, now this data is not already, right, for the hugging Face perspective. So, what I'll do, guys, first I will, basically…
Sunny Savita: First what I'll do, guys, first, I will convert the data into the Hugging Face format. So, for converting the data into the Hugging Face format, what I'll do… so let me show you that code over here.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, here, you can see, this is the code, okay? So, I put the simple condition over here. See, this is my data, guys, you can check out. Once you will download it, you will get the data. Let me show you the raw data and the process data both.
Sunny Savita: Now, tell me, how was the session, guys? Are you able to understand everything, whatever I'm explaining? It is very simple. Once you will go through with it, you will get it, okay? So, now let me show you the data. See, this is the raw data.
Sunny Savita: This one is what?
Sunny Savita: It's a raw data.
Sunny Savita: Okay? This one.
Sunny Savita: Now, let me show you the process data, how the process data looks like.
Sunny Savita: So, total 6 pages are there. Now, once I process the data, once I divide into the paragraph and all, now this is my process data.
Sunny Savita: Now, just look into the data and tell me, guys, is it more clean one compared to this?
Sunny Savita: Is it a more clean… see, this is the, like, this is what… this is the original data, raw data.
Sunny Savita: And this is a processed data.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So this data, actually, is going to be a more clean data.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now here, what I'll do, guys, so after that, let me close it, and after that, guys, here.
Sunny Savita: data set, we are going to be imported from the hugging phase, okay? And then, I'm calling this fromList, and over here, I'm passing this list of record. Now, this data, after that, guys, this data will be converted into the… into what? Now, after that, this data will be converted into the hugging Face format, okay? Now, let me show you this particular data set.
Sunny Savita: This one. So, here is what, guys? Here is the data. Text, source pages, paragraph ID, and the character count. Now, see? This is the data. Now, tell me, guys, when I was loading the data in the previous class from the Hugging Face, are we getting in this kind of format something like this only?
Sunny Savita: And many people were asking to me, Sunny, how to create our own data, how to process our own data, and how to create into the Hugging Face format, and how to keep it over there.
Sunny Savita: Now, tell me, guys, everything is going to be clear over here, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: step-by-step, everything is going to be clear, right? So, this is the entire process, this is called a data ingestion.
Sunny Savita: This is what guys tell me, this is a data ingestion. So, on… on our data, basically, we are going to be perform this entire process on our own custom data before doing the fine-tuning. Fine-tuning is not started yet.
Sunny Savita: But guys, we performed the entire cleaning and the data ingestion process.
Sunny Savita: Tell me, how many people are able to understand till here, so that I can proceed further. I just want quick, thumbs up in the chat. You can go through with the entire solution, okay? It's very simple, again, I'm saying, because it is, guys, once you will go through with it, you will get that, okay?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, this is called the data, ingestion or processing, right? So you are skipping less than 80 characters? Yes, the paragraph which is having less than 80 characters, I'm skipping that. That's it, Satish.
Sunny Savita: How to transform into the hugging phase? This… with this single code of line, we can transform that. Got it, Karthik?
Sunny Savita: After the final… where we have the input format defined as a Hugging Face compatible, this is the, like, final one, no? This was our raw data.
Sunny Savita: We have saved the data right over there, and after that, we have converted into the Hugging Face format. Got it?
Sunny Savita: There's the Hugging Face compatible data. Now, guys, in the previous class, I've shown you, if you want to… if we load the data from the Hugging Face, so we get it something like that.
Sunny Savita: Tell me yes or no. Number of rows and features, whatever features are there. So, are we getting our data in the same way? Now, one more thing. If I'm asking to you.
Sunny Savita: Can you push this data to the Hugging Face Hub? Will you be able to do it?
Sunny Savita: Yes, you can do it.
Sunny Savita: Now, Arun is asking dataset fromList, from where it is coming. It is coming from the dataset library.
Sunny Savita: Arun, are you not checking the importer statement? See over here?
Sunny Savita: If you will go… this is all the things I showed in my previous class only around, okay, with the custom data only. See, this…
Sunny Savita: From dataset. This is the dataset.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, using this data set, what I'm doing, I'm calling one method. What is a method name? Tell me around.
Sunny Savita: What is our method name? So, where it went?
Sunny Savita: This is the method name, no, fromList, right?
Sunny Savita: From list is a method name. So, paragraph record is what? It is a list of dictionary.
Sunny Savita: I'm passing that list of dictionary to this particular method, and I'm creating what? I'm creating my Hugging Face compatible data. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Good.
Sunny Savita: Yes, non-instruction fine-tuning is same as a pre-trained model. If you're going to pre-train your own model from scratch now.
Sunny Savita: Somewhere you are taking a same step.
Sunny Savita: Got it.
Sunny Savita: But there, actually, You will have the transformer model.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Transformer, you are going to be code from scratch. The code which I've given to you, right? If you remember.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: If we are giving… okay, just tell me, Bhargao, okay, I'm not saying anything, just tell me with your understanding. If you are giving non-clean data, or if we are giving clean data, in which way the model will be able to understand, like, well the entire context of the data, and it will be able to produce the right answer. Tell me.
Sunny Savita: I'm not saying anything, just tell me.
Sunny Savita: you are able to think by yourself, right? If we are going to be provided clean data, that model will learn the clean thing.
Sunny Savita: Right? And it will generate the clean output.
Sunny Savita: This is a self-explanatory thing, no, right? So, I don't know why, like, this kind of doubt comes…
Sunny Savita: If we are giving a raw data to the dataset live, and if we are giving a raw data to the dataset live, in that case, what will happen? It's not going to be converted into that particular format. Why it is not going to be converted into that particular format? Tell me, because here we are calling a different method, we are calling a fromList method.
Sunny Savita: Making sense or not? So, this dataset library is having a different, different method. Okay, if I'm going to be checked with the dataset library, this one, just press the dot, you will get the entire list, okay? So in… from what all ways, from what all, like, data structure, you can convert the data into the Hugging Face format.
Sunny Savita: So, over here, you can see, we have what? So, we have the different, different methods. So, let's say if I'm calling this from. So, you can use the CSV, you can use the dict, you can use the file, you can use a generator, you can use a JSON, List, Panda, SparkIt, Polaris, Spark, SQL. So, from these many places, you can convert your data into the
Sunny Savita: hugging face format.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? So, if you're passing a raw data, in that case, it won't be a visible.
Sunny Savita: Okay? You will have to use a different method. Got it, Baragav? Is it getting clear to you now? Tell me. So just explore in this way, okay? So once you will go like this, it will be clear. Okay? Great.
Sunny Savita: So, I hope guys still hear everything is fine. Now, what is going to be a next step? Now, can anyone tell me what is going to be a next step?
Sunny Savita: It'll be fast.
Sunny Savita: So here, guys, what we are going to be do, we are going to be perform the fine-tuning, okay? Tokenization in the
Sunny Savita: a training. Now, guys, from here, the steps is going to be a little tricky. It means not a tricky, the code and all will be simple, but again, we'll understand that, okay? Again, we'll revise that thing, right? So, I have half an hour, let me complete this entire fine-tuning, and then, again, we can revise that thing in the next class also. Got it?
Sunny Savita: So, what I'm doing, guys, so first, I'm going to be convert my data into the… first, I'm going to be divide my data into the two part.
Sunny Savita: The first is going to be what? Train data and the test data. I think you know why we use the train data and test data. Test we use for the validation purpose, right? So wherever I have to do the validation, I will use this validation data, okay? So what I've done, I am using this text dataset.trainandtestSplit. I'm passing my text size, train size, test size configuration, okay?
Sunny Savita: Seed is nothing, basically, just, for removing the randomization, means, again, I'm going to be execute, again, it will generate some random result, okay? So for that, I've defined the seed value.
Sunny Savita: Then here, I'll be getting the train data, validation data, okay, and then I'm printing that. So you can see 7 rows going for the training, and 2 rows is going for the testing, for the validation, okay? I hope this is clear.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, the main thing is going to be star. So, we got the data, and if you want to provide this data to the model, okay, for the fine-tuning purpose, so first, we will perform the tokenization, right? So, let me do one thing, let me
Sunny Savita: Pass all the text over here.
Sunny Savita: So… This is the… tokenization detail.
Sunny Savita: Guys, I'll give you all the detail related to the tokenization, okay? There's going to be, like,
Sunny Savita: A very critical step, right? So, now what we are doing, we got the data. Now, what we are doing after that, we are going to be load the tokenizer. So, tokenizer converts text into the token IDs, okay? For causal LLM modeling, the model learns
Sunny Savita: what we provide to the model, according to that, is going to be put at the next program, right? And this is why we call it non-instruction causal LM fine-tuning, language model fine-tuning, or large language model fine-tuning, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, here, basically, let me write the code.
Sunny Savita: So, just a second, I can provide the code, guys. So, this is the code for the tokenization. Okay, this one. And I have one more code, let me show you that code also.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the one.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And then, this one, guys. This one.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So this is the entire code which is required for the tokenization, and there are lots of things, okay? So one by one, step by step, we can discuss all those things. And again, guys, I'm saying I can give you the quick revision of it, so in the next class, I'll do that, okay? So, once I'll explain the instruction, fine-tune, and the preference tuning.
Sunny Savita: Then again, I'll give you the quick revision of this entire thing.
Sunny Savita: So… Now, over here, guys, you can see, I have, like, so many things with respect to the tokenization.
Sunny Savita: And why we are doing it, you will get it in some time. Okay? So you will get a quick overview of the entire thing.
Sunny Savita: Right? So till here, guys, what we are doing, we are performing the tokenization, okay? So, let's understand that step by step. Now, tell me first thing, guys, did we understand the tokenization in our previous class?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Okay, so I'm sharing this link, just look into this entire code once, okay? I'm giving you one minute of time, guys.
Sunny Savita: So, to everyone, guys, I'm giving you this link, just look into this code. Are you looking?
Sunny Savita: just… just go through with this code one… once, and check out… check what I have written inside each and every cell.
Sunny Savita: Do it and let me know. Do it, guys.
Sunny Savita: And then I'll proceed, okay?
Sunny Savita: But tell me, guys, have you checked the code file? Have you gone through the code file?
Sunny Savita: I'm asking to everyone. Yes? Okay, please check.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I'm giving you one minute, one minute of time, one more minute. Please check it out there. Okay?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, sure. Giving you one more minute, please check.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, everything will understand, okay? Over the Blackboard also, I will explain you what is a pad token and all. The concepts are very simple. First, let's try to complete at least one fine-tuning today.
Sunny Savita: Right? And then, we can understand all the concept God.
Sunny Savita: Don't worry, I capped one day for the, entire theory and all. So, after completing this practical and all, in one day, I will explain to you the LoRa, QLORA,
Sunny Savita: padding and all. Whatever, like, theoretical concept out there, we'll discuss that, okay?
Sunny Savita: Okay, great. Now, guys, over here, you can see, so what we are doing, we are going to be load the tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: Now, in the previous session only, I told you that with every model, one tokenizer is associated. So what's the use of the tokenizer? Can anyone tell me in the chat?
Sunny Savita: the use of the tokenizer, basically, to convert our data into the tokens. Now, how it's going to be convert the data into the tokens?
Sunny Savita: tell me, using the different algorithm. WordPiece algorithm is there, sentence piece algorithm is there, right? And even we have created our own tokenizer also in the previous session. Now, guys, we are going to be convert any data into the tokens, okay? So, one token ID is going to be generated related to that. So, this is the model name, guys. This model we are going to be use.
Sunny Savita: For the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Now, here what I'm doing, guys, I am passing it to the pre-trained method, and then the model is being loaded. Now, one more thing, guys, if we are going to be load this model, so where we are loading it, are we loading inside the RAM, or we are loading inside the local disk? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: So we are going to be load this model inside the RAM, okay?
Sunny Savita: If you're loading into the local disk, for that, we have a different method, that is a snapshot. I discussed in the previous session, you can check it out, that. Now, what I'm doing, guys, here I'm checking the pad tokens. Pad token means what? The tokens which is being used for the padding.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, what is the meaning of the padding? So, padding, basically, it's a very simple concept, okay? So, let's say here I written one, sentence. Now, my sentence is what? I am sunny, okay? Now, the second is, I am
Sunny Savita: Sunny?
Sunny Savita: Savita, okay? So, now, here I am.
Sunny Savita: Sunny. Savita.
Sunny Savita: AI, right? And now, I am… Sunny?
Sunny Savita: Savita, AI.
Sunny Savita: Mentor, okay? Let's just look over here. This… the length of the sentence is a different one, tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: length of the sentence is going to be a different one. Each and every length is a different one.
Sunny Savita: So we're talking about the length of this sentence, we have a 3-word, 4, okay, 3 word, 4-word, 5-word, and the 6-word over here. Now, guys, if we are passing a data, if we are passing this mismatched length to the model, it's not going to be a good one, right? So what we do, we pad the data, okay, we pad the sentence. Now, tell me what is the maximum… which one is a maximum sentence?
Sunny Savita: So, this is my maximum one. I am Sunny Savita, AI mentor, okay? So how many tokens we have? 6 tokens. Now, if I wanted to basically, like, match this length with this particular sentence, then what I'll do, either I will do the 0 padding, or I will do the 1 padding, right? So, here I will write the 0.
Sunny Savita: Right? I match the last word, okay, if I wanted to match the length of this sentence with this one, so I written 0 over here. Now, you can see what I have, I have 6 characters. Now, here, what I'll do, if I wanted to match the length
Sunny Savita: of this sentence with this sentence, the maximum one, what I'll write over here, I'll write 0, okay? 0 and 0. Now, if I wanted to match the length of this sentence with this sentence, because I will… obviously, I will select the maximum one now, right? So what I'll do, I will write the
Sunny Savita: Zero.
Sunny Savita: 0. Okay, so this is only called the padding, guys. This is only called the padding. So inside the padding, what we are doing, either we are adding 0, we are adding 1, or we are adding any special token, just to match the length with the biggest sentence.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? Yes or no? I hope this concept is going to be clear. So, here we have 302010, which is going to be matched to this particular sentence, the length of this particular sentence.
Sunny Savita: Is it clear to all of you? Tell me yes or no. Is this concept is clear? If this concept is clear, you can write in the chat. Okay? If we don't have a padding, then the length is going to be mismatched.
Sunny Savita: Model might generate an error over there while we are training the model, okay?
Sunny Savita: Any number you can write. As I told you, you know, sing, sabji, 0, 1, any special token.
Sunny Savita: So, I hope, guys, it is clear. So, if pet token is none, then we are going to be assigned the end of the token as a padded token, okay? Now, which padding we are doing? We are doing a right padding. So, padding, it could be the left-hand side, and it could be the right-hand side, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, here we are checking the detail of the model, so once I'll execute it, guys, you will get the detail of the model. So, this is my tokenizer, here is the vocabulary size, okay, then padded token ID is 2, EOS token ID is 2. So, here I return 0 and 1, right? But here, pad token ID is what? 2.
Sunny Savita: Pad token ID is what? 2. It is equal to the EOS token, right? Now, what I'm doing, guys, so here is what… here, basically, I'm passing my data for the tokenization.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, let me run it, let me execute it, this function, and then we have another function. Now, what this function is doing, actually, it's going to be convert our data into the, same block, right? Because each paragraph could have a different length.
Sunny Savita: Of the tokens, right? So, what we are doing, we are going to be grouping the text. It is a good one. This preprocess, this tokenization, this preprocessing, actually, again, tokenization also comes under the preprocessing only. So, this preprocessing, grouping the text, okay, for the same amount of token, it is a good practice. So, here, I'm going to be… follow this also. Again, I will explain that, that what is happening, okay?
Sunny Savita: First, let me explain it. Or either I return this entire explanation over here, right? So, you can read from here as well. So, this is the tokenization of the text. This is for what? This is for the grouping, okay?
Sunny Savita: And after that, guys, what we are doing, this is my raw data set.
Sunny Savita: which I'm going to be mapped to the tokenization function, so I will be getting the tokenized data. Now, here I can show you the tokenized data, guys.
Sunny Savita: And, what I can do, I can, like, run it, and see, guys, I got the tokenized data. I got the input mask, input ID, and the attention mask. Input ID and the attention mask, right? Now, what I will do, guys, I will tokenize this data, okay, I will map this data to the group text, okay? I will mapping to this particular function.
Sunny Savita: And now, once I'll execute it, guys, so I'll be getting my final data set, okay? Now, this particular data is a final tokenized data, which I'm going to be using for the pre-processing.
Sunny Savita: So, input ID, attention mask, and the labels we have, right?
Sunny Savita: So, this particular data, we are going to be used for what? We are going to be used for the, training, okay? I will pass this data to the model.
Sunny Savita: Again, I will come, will explain you more about it, okay? First of all, let me run the fine-tuning, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, again, I'm saying, guys, it will give you the revision of this entire thing. Now, here I'm checking if the final dataset train has got to zero, then I'm saying no training block was created, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, but guys, we have a train data, so I will not get this particular error. Now, let me show you the data. Final data set, train.0. So, here is the dataset row, so this is what? This is my sample. So, let me show you the sample, guys, how it looks like. So, this is my sample, okay? Now, let me keep it where… let me keep it over here.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the sample, guys. This is the entire sample. So, we have an input ID, this is my input ID, this is my attention mask, okay? And this is the label, basically, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, the size of each input ID, okay, the size of each paragraph is going to be 512.
Sunny Savita: Right? The size of each paragraph is going to be 512. So, the group text, what it is doing, basically, so we have a different, different length of the paragraph, right? So, group text, basically, is going to be, creating a block size, okay, which is 512, right? So, here, guys, you can see, this is the
Sunny Savita: Just a second.
Sunny Savita: So, this is what, this is the complete detail of this sample. Okay, let me execute it, so you will get the complete data. So, this is the key, dictionary, we have this particular column. So, input ID length is 512, label length is 512, and decode sample, this is my, basically, data, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, what I'll do after that, once the tokenization is done, okay? Well, we'll come to the label and all, you will get that, okay? Just wait for some more time. So, over here, guys, what we are doing, so…
Sunny Savita: After that, guys, we are going to be load the model, okay? So, first of all, let me do one thing, let me…
Sunny Savita: keep the model-related stuff also. So, load the model with a QLORA-friendly configuration. So, we're going to be use QLORA over here for what, guys? For the GPU efficiency, for the lower GPU usage, for the faster experiment, okay?
Sunny Savita: And, for the practical of the collab-style environment, right? So, queueload up, we can, like, configure anywhere, on any server. Getting my point.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what I'll do… so, this is the complete code for loading a model.
Sunny Savita: So, here you can see, this is the complete code for loading the model. So, first, what I'm checking, I'm checking the availability of the coda, means whether I'm running my code over the GPU or non-GPU. So, once it is confirmed, okay, so let me check that.
Sunny Savita: So over here, guys, yes, we are using the CUDA, and this is our GPU name. Then what we'll do, guys, we are going to be clear the memory. If any existing memory is there, we are going to be clear that specific memory, right? If we are going to be use the CUDA, so this is the configuration for what? This is the configuration for the…
Sunny Savita: quantization, okay? We are going to be using this bits and bytes configuration for what? For the quantization, right? Then we are, using this auto-model causal LLM, LM library. Here, we are calling this from pre-trained.
Sunny Savita: We are passing the model name, we are passing this configuration, okay? Device map auto, whichever… on whichever device we are running, automatically it will map, okay?
Sunny Savita: Then we are getting what? We are getting a base model, right? Now, over here, guys, we… what we are doing, so…
Sunny Savita: we are loading this particular model, and we are passing to this method prepare model for the k-bit training. So finally, what we are getting… so inside the base model, we are getting our quantized model, okay? So once I'll execute it, guys.
Sunny Savita: So my model is going to be load over here, right? Now, what is the next step? After this one, what's going to be a next step? So, now tell me, guys, we have loaded a model, but we haven't applied the LoRa so far.
Sunny Savita: Right? We have… we have loaded the model, but we haven't applied the LoRa. So what we'll do, we are going to be apply the LoRa, okay? Now, guys, see, this one…
Sunny Savita: You will have to focus over here. Again, I'm saying first C, then again, we'll take a revision off it, got it? So my model is being loaded. Now, on top of it, we are going to be applying the LoRa, okay? So this is the entire configuration for the LoRa itself. So now let me keep the configuration for the LoRa.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the configuration of the LoRa. Maybe you're not getting this right now, but you will get that, okay? Once I will explain to you the LoRa and all, again, we'll come to this particular solution. Got it? So, this is, like, guys, this is a very important solution. So, everything we can build up around to this only, around to this notebook. Got it?
Sunny Savita: So, my model is getting loaded. After that, we can initialize the LoRa configuration. Then, we can get the PEFT model, right? So, how we will get a PEFT model?
Sunny Savita: Now, see, they are passing a base model, which is our quantized model. On top of it, we are going to be applying the LoRa configuration. So this is going to be my final model. So once I'll execute it, guys, I will be getting my model, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, now let me run this also. Now, tell me, guys, if we're talking about the total parameter inside the model, how many parameters we have? So, here we have 1 billion parameter, around 100 crore parameter. But if we're talking about the lower, then how many parameters going to be trained?
Sunny Savita: So, only one CR parameter is going to be trained. It is just a 1% of the entire parameter. So, this is a benefit of the LoRa guys.
Sunny Savita: Is it getting clear to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Tell me yes or no. Is this thing getting clear to all of you? So, how to get the number of parameter?
Sunny Savita: Chinmei is saying, no.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and Lokes is also saying, partially. Fine, guys. So if you're not getting, you will get that.
Sunny Savita: Right? Once I will explain the LoRa, you'll understand that, because LoRa is still pending, right? So you can relate this session with the upcoming session also, right? So once I will explain the LoRa theoretically, you will easily get that, because there, what we are doing, we are just doing the decomposition of the metrics.
Sunny Savita: Based on the rank itself.
Sunny Savita: Right? So let's say if we have a bigger matrix, that's going to be into the smaller matrix.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no, right? So this is what, this is my more trainable, this is my trainable parameter, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, here, guys, what I'm doing, see?
Sunny Savita: After that, we have one more, functionality that is called the Data Collator. So, let me mention that. Again, this is not a mandatory, but I capped it for the good fine-tuning, because it is going to be handled so many things by there itself, right?
Sunny Savita: So, I'm keeping this data collector also. Guys, as of now, just, like, focus over here, right? We'll understand again all the things.
Sunny Savita: Then, guys, what we are doing, so after passing this… after, like, initializing this data collector, which is, like, handling the batches, padding, and all everything, right? We are going to be initializing our training, okay? So, this is the entire code for the training itself.
Sunny Savita: So, here you can see, let me show you. So, this is all the parameter for the training, okay? This is all the parameter for the training. Training.
Sunny Savita: keyword argument, right? All the parameter for the training. Then after that, guys, what we are doing, we are checking, right? So what a parameter is available inside the current transformer version, whatever we have installed.
Sunny Savita: And with that, basically what we are doing, we are going to be initialize this, we are going to be create this, safe training, KWERGS, right? So let me show you what output I'll be getting off it.
Sunny Savita: So, just a second, guys.
Sunny Savita: here is the output, okay? Save training KWRGS. Now, inside this safe training KWRGS is nothing. It is just like a parameter which we are getting from the current version of the transformer class, right? So, we are just going to be initialized those parameters only for the safer side, because
Sunny Savita: they are changing this transformer library again and again, and changing the parameter name here and there. So this is just a safe approach, okay? I will again explain. So this is my all the parameter, which I'm passing for the training purpose, right? And I will explain you all this parameter. I can discuss that, don't worry.
Sunny Savita: Then here, guys, you can see, so…
Sunny Savita: we have what? Again, one more level of, basically, sanity check, right?
Sunny Savita: What we are going? Remove unsupported training argument. So, yeah, all the argument is available inside the current version of the transformer, so we are passing it for what? For the training itself, right? So, we are going to define the training argument. Now this is done.
Sunny Savita: Using this particular class. And after that, guys, what I'll do… so see, this is my… all the training argument, okay?
Sunny Savita: Got it?
Sunny Savita: So, whatever value we have defined, and whatever by default we have, all the values we are getting. So, it is having around more than 130 arguments, this transformer class, okay, for the fine-tuning itself. So, we can tweak this many of hyperparameter, actually.
Sunny Savita: But I'll explain you the important one. Got it? Now, guys, what we'll do, so my training argument is done and all everything, right? Now, I will, initialize my trainer. So, this is the code for initializing my trainer, okay?
Sunny Savita: So you just need to focus on this… on this one, on this line, this trainer one. This… everything we have imported from the Hugging Face itself, right? So let me keep this code in this different cell, because it is not important, it's just a sanity check again, right?
Sunny Savita: So, let me check where it's going to be filled, name final dataset, okay, final dataset. So, guys, this is, basically just a sanity check, right? Now, this is the main class trainer, okay? Now, once I will define this class trainer, now see my trainer is ready.
Sunny Savita: So, we have training argument, now my trainer is ready, and after that, guys, what I'll do, I will start my training. So, let me give you the code for starting the training.
Sunny Savita: So this is a code, basically, the final code for starting the training. So, I will just call the train method on top of this trainer, and then my training will be started. Now, see, guys, the training has started.
Sunny Savita: my model is fine-tuning, right? So whatever data we had on top of that data, my model is getting fine-tuned. So we just have a very small number of data, so it won't take much time, so hardly it will take,
Sunny Savita: like, 50 to 20 seconds, because I just have 7 rows, and my dataset size is also very small, okay? So now here, guys, you can see my training is done.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So here you can see, guys, my training is done. Because we had a small model, and we had the small data set. Okay? So…
Sunny Savita: I think, till here, everything is fine. Again, guys, I will give you the reason. Step by step, we'll understand everything, right? First of all, let me complete this part.
Sunny Savita: So, my training is done. Now, after the training, guys, what we will do, tell me, after the training, we are going to be save this entire model, okay? So, this is the code for saving the entire model, guys, this one. So, here you can see, training has started. Now, after that, we are going to save the adapter. So, we are going to save that model.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and we are going to save the tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: Now, tell me, guys, this is the full-fledged model, or it is just a LoRa adapter? What is this, guys? What do you think?
Sunny Savita: It is just a lower adapter, it's a full-fledged model. So guys, this is… this is what… this is the…
Sunny Savita: This is the LoRa adapter. So what we have trained over here? So here, guys, you can see we have trained the…
Sunny Savita: LoRa adapter. This is what? This is my LoRa adapter. And we can train as much as adapter like this. We can train as much as adapter like this. Now, we haven't merged this adapter to our model, okay? Now, I will show you how to merge this adapter to the model, right?
Sunny Savita: So this is what… this is my LoRa adapter, which we have fine-tuned, those trainable bait, which you are seeing, okay, after applying the LoRa. Now, after that, guys, what I'll do, so after that, basically, we are going to be push the model. So here, guys, what we have, we have a
Sunny Savita: pushing the model. So, we can push the entire model, or we can push the LoRa adapter, okay? Anything we can push to the hugging phase. So, this is a simple code, snippet. I think you are already familiar with this, pushing one. I will show you how to push, okay? I just need to execute it with the current IT, that's it.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what will happen? So, once, my…
Sunny Savita: model is ready. Once my model is trained, my adapter is ready, right? Now.
Sunny Savita: what we can do over here. So we can do the inferencing, right? So, let me show you the inferencing code, basically. So, this is the code for the inferencing, guys, this one.
Sunny Savita: Right, so we are loading a model. So, here, we are loading a model, whatever model we have trained, the load adapter, basically, we are loading that model, and after that, guys, what I'll do, I will perform the inferencing. So, let me show you the inferencing part, what all, basically functions, sorry, what all, basically prompt I have. So these many prompts I have for the inferencing, okay?
Sunny Savita: this many prompts, I have for the inferencing.
Sunny Savita: No.
Sunny Savita: we have trained the LoRa adapter. Now, if I wanted to place that LoRa adapter over the model, okay, if I wanted to completely merge that, right, definitely we are going to be merge it, because the same model, we are going to be using for the instruction fine-tuning. So, this is the code snippet for the merging, basically.
Sunny Savita: Okay? This is the final code snippet for the merging, okay? So what we can do, we can load the model, and we can merge that model with our base model. Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So this is the entire pipeline for the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Making sense how many people are able to understand it at least 50% on a high level.
Sunny Savita: So, these many steps we have for the fine-tuning. But don't worry, guys, again, we'll go through with it, and we'll take a revision of it, okay? So, step by step, one by one, basically, we can, understand everything, okay? Because I know, sort of revision is required for this entire code, and definitely I'll give you that. Got it?
Sunny Savita: So, now let me show you the inferencing also. So, this is my LoRa adapter, okay, which I trained, and now tell me, guys, in which form the LoRa adapter is available inside this binary form.
Sunny Savita: save tensor format, right? Now here, guys, what I'm doing, so again, we are going to be load that adapter, okay? So, how to load that adapter? Over here, you can see. So, this is my model.
Sunny Savita: Configuration model, and then this is my adapter.
Sunny Savita: So, just a second.
Sunny Savita: Reload base model plus load adapter. So first, I'll do some cleaning and all, so let me clean this particular code. Okay, let me keep it inside the different cell.
Sunny Savita: And what I'll do, guys, so here I'm using the CUDA only. This is what is my CUDA. This is my, like, quantization configuration, okay? Now, auto model for causal LLM. Now, here what I'm passing, I'm passing my model name.
Sunny Savita: Now, here I'm passing my quantization configuration, right? So, this is what is my inference model.
Sunny Savita: what I'm getting, guys, I'm getting my inference model. This is my inference model, I think you already know, right? Then after that, guys, what we are doing, we are going to be load the adapter. So this is my adapter, basically.
Sunny Savita: And then both thing I'm going to be, like, so, both thing I'm going to be loaded using this craftmodel.FromPrint. So, here I'm not merging, actually. Okay, here I'm just loading LoRaadapter with the…
Sunny Savita: LoRa-trained adapter with the base model. But if I wanted to merge this adapter with the base model, so this is the code base for that, this one.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so what I'll do, guys, I'll quickly do the inferencing, and we'll show you, whether my model is able to perform the out… whether my model is able to get the output or not, okay? So, this is my inference model. Yes, it is able to load from the directory itself.
Sunny Savita: Now, here, basically, I'm going to be generating the output, so this is my output, basically.
Sunny Savita: And after that, guys, this is my prompt, which I'm passing to the model, and let's see what output I'll be getting, okay? So, this is my prompt. So, model is going to be load, it's working.
Sunny Savita: And if it is generating the response, means it is working fine. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Okay, so see, guys, with respect to the first prompt, we are getting a response. This is my response, right? Likewise, you can see for the other prompt also, so we are getting a response. Means, my model is working fine.
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, I'm, giving you this, notebook link. Just look into this process, and I give you the quick, basically, recap of it, and tomorrow, again, we'll revise it, okay? Again, I'm saying, guys, tomorrow, again, we'll revise it. I'm giving you,
Sunny Savita: 5 minutes of break, please look into that.
Sunny Savita: And don't worry, guys, I'll explain you everything, Laura and all. Guys, do you believe on me? Tell me, yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Don't worry, I'll explain you everything, Laura and all, okay? So, just believe on me for 2-3 classes. So, let me complete till here.
Sunny Savita: This one.
Sunny Savita: Whatever I return now, this part, okay?
Sunny Savita: Guys, give me 2-3 more classes, everything is going to be clear. Everything. You will understand each and every line, whatever I've written over here.
Sunny Savita: It's very easy to understand, okay?
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, I'm giving you 5 minutes of break until please check out with the code, and then again, I'll give you the quick revision. 5 minutes, I'll give you the quick revision, and then…
Sunny Savita: We'll go for the doubt session, right? So, did you like this entire solution and all, everything? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: And this is an industry-grade solution, guys, because I work on, one of the fine-tuning, practical, right? So I know, basically.
Sunny Savita: Either… see, even I can short the code. If you will look into my YouTube video now, see, I only teach this much of thing.
Sunny Savita: This is, like, shortest version. This is the shortest, shortest version of this entire code, right?
Sunny Savita: I can finish it within, like, 10 to 12 lines as well, but…
Sunny Savita: Again, guys, you will not enjoy that.
Sunny Savita: So, I follow the entire process, okay?
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, quick water break. Again, Will, understand. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, can we do the quickly revision?
Sunny Savita: I hope you have gone through with this entire code and all everything, right?
Sunny Savita: Just let me know so that we can take a quick revision. And again, guys, this thing is going to be repeat again and again in the preference tuning, as well as in the, this, instruction fine-tuning also.
Sunny Savita: Okay? This thing is going to be repeat again and again. So, you will, you will be very familiar within this… within this 2-3 classes.
Sunny Savita: So, what I'm doing, I'm taking the explanation from the tokenizer itself, just a second.
Sunny Savita: I think the data part was very clear, now what I'm doing here, see? So, what we are doing, we are going to load the tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: So, the tokenizer converts text into the token IDs. I think you already know, right? For causal language, we are, what we are doing, we are predicting the next token, right? Now, over here, guys, see?
Sunny Savita: Just a second, another little tokenizer. Yeah. So just look from here. Example, suppose the tokenizer convert our format text into this 1300 tokens, okay? Like this.
Sunny Savita: Now, if we set block size equal to 512,
Sunny Savita: then the token are splitted like this, okay? Block 1, 512, then block 2, 5132, 1024, and remaining token, like this, okay? So, 512 is a padding? No, it is not padding, actually. So, what I'm trying to say, we have created a paragraph.
Sunny Savita: Okay, but guys, in those paragraphs, if we're talking about the paragraph, so in every paragraph, the token size is a different one? Tell me, yes or no.
Sunny Savita: So, what we are doing, we are going to be keep a identical tokens token size, identical token size in every paragraph.
Sunny Savita: So, we are creating a block, okay? So, let's say my first paragraph is a first block. So, in that, we have 512 token. Second one, 512 token. Third one, 512 token. Getting my point? So, this is the meaning, this is the meaning of this entire method, which we have written, the group one, basically.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so here, what we are doing, we are going to be load the tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: Then, the padding and all, I think you already got it, what it is, right? Then, this is my tokenization function, which is converting my data into the token IDs. Now, group text, what it is doing, basically, is going to be concatenating the entire example, means all the paragraphs are going to be converted into the 1, right?
Sunny Savita: Then after that, guys, we have a total length, all the input IDs. Now, we are going to be, like, convert into the block, okay? Now, here you can see, drop the small reminder to all the blocks, have exactly the block size token, right?
Sunny Savita: So, we are going to be converted to the blog. Now, here is a Serenity, right? So, after that, guys, we are going to be applied inside the result, right? And, here you can see result, input ID.copy. So, what we are doing, so we are keeping inside the labels. Now, why we are doing it, guys.
Sunny Savita: like, behind this, there is a very, like, a deep concept, okay? I'll come to this one. So tomorrow, I will explain this part.
Sunny Savita: Okay, because I will have to write something over the blackboard. Because, see, what this, model is… what we are doing inside the training, we are going to be predicting the next token.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, we are going to be putting the next token. So, according to the hugging Face, whatever we have in the input, right, so the same thing will have to be reflected into the label also.
Sunny Savita: Okay, this is what Hugging Face is saying. And because of that, basically, whatever input IDs we have, whatever input we have, the same thing we are reflecting into the label also.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, the model internally shift label from for to next token prediction. So, something like this, this hugging Face is doing in a backend for that next token prediction, okay? So, whatever input we have, the same thing we are keeping inside the label also, okay? So I can show you over the blackboard that thing.
Sunny Savita: Now, what we are doing, whatever raw data we have, so first we are going to be tokenize the data.
Sunny Savita: And then after that, we are going to be grouping the data, okay? So we have a one chunk, which is having 512 token, and this is going to be, what, my final data. Till here, everything is fine, everything is clear.
Sunny Savita: Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Now, after that, guys, what will happen? See?
Sunny Savita: So, you can check out the complete detail and all about that sample data, okay? The final data, you can take one sample, you can check out the detail. Now, what we are doing, so we are going to be load the model. So, this is the configuration for the quantization. There, we are here, we are going to be load the model, okay?
Sunny Savita: And here, guys, my final quantized model, right? Preparing for the K-bit training means K-bit means what? 8-bit, 4-bit, 1-bit, right? Have you heard about a 1-bit LLM? So.
Sunny Savita: the same one, basically. We can even load the motor in a but one-bit configuration, which means the weight could be the one bit also, okay, from any float number.
Sunny Savita: So, here is what? Here is my quantized model. Now, using this quantized model, so we are going to be, on top of this quantized model, we are going to be append the LoRa configuration. So, this is my LoRa configuration, right?
Sunny Savita: So here is my task, what kind of task we are doing. LoRa rank, right? LoRa alpha, some parameter, right? Tweak the result of the LoRa. And this is a very important thing. On what all layer we are going to be imp… we are going to be implement the LoRa, right? So once I'll explain the theoretical thing, you will get that.
Sunny Savita: Now, here we are getting a final model, okay?
Sunny Savita: On top of the quantized model, this is my quantized model, we are going to be implementing the LoRa, and we are getting a model. Now, these many are the trainable parameter, okay, from all the parameters, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, this data callator, what it is doing is going to be convert my data, actually, into the batches, okay? And if somewhere we don't have a padding and all, so it's going to be handled right. It's an internal class of the, basically Hugging Face, okay? So let me give you the detail about it, just a second.
Sunny Savita: I'm, copy and pasting. I capped one very good, like…
Sunny Savita: mark down, okay? Just a second, guys, I'm copy and pasting over here. You can read this out with respect to the data collator, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, see, this is the complete information about the data collector. So, what we are doing, just read it out over here. What does data collector do? So, it's handling the different, different thing, okay, collecting multiple training examples together, padding, if it is required, converting example into a tensor.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And preparing label for the language modeling. Means, basically, we can, do the preprocessing kind of thing, okay? This is one more level of, pre-processing, means, for the final processing, we can pass it to the data collector, okay, to this particular class.
Sunny Savita: whatever data we had, okay? So, we had the, like, we are going to be create this data collector class, and we can pass it to the training argument, okay? I'll show you where we are passing it. Now, this is all the parameter for what? For the…
Sunny Savita: training, okay? So we have defined this parameter inside the config, so let me show you that.
Sunny Savita: So, here is my config.
Sunny Savita: this is my config, guys, config class, okay? Now, just see, inside the config class. So, this is the parameter of the LoRa, there's the parameter of the training. So, number of epochs, for how many epochs we are,
Sunny Savita: Training our model.
Sunny Savita: per device, train best size, okay? So, training best size, evaluation best size, gradient accumulation, it is related to the optimizer. Learning rate, warm-up ratio, weight take, again, related to the optimizer, the atom optimizer we are using, then logging step, at which step we are going to be log, evaluation is step, okay, save is step, and then save total limit, and then max step.
Sunny Savita: minus 1, right? So, this is all the training parameter which we are passing while we are training the model. This transformer class is having lots of parameter, guys, right? So, what I can do, I can, show you again, see.
Sunny Savita: Here what we are doing, this is all my parameter. The value, basically, I'm taking from the configuration itself. Here you can see the value I'm taking from the configuration itself, where I'm initializing this particular parameter, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, this is just a sanity check, right? So, whether this parameter is available inside the training, class, this transformer class or not, right? After that, guys, this is all the set of the parameter.
Sunny Savita: Which we are passing. So, we are going to be initialize the training argument. This is my training argument, okay?
Sunny Savita: And after that, guys, here you can see…
Sunny Savita: what we are doing. So, after that, guys, see, we are going to be initialize the trainer, right? So, this is my trainer, and on top of the trainer, basically, I will just call the train.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: I hope this thing is clear. Now, here you can see when we are going to be initialize the
Sunny Savita: When we are going to be initialized the trainer, okay? At that time only, we are passing the final model, or all the training argument, our training dataset.
Sunny Savita: validation data set, if it is there, right? And the data collector, which will handle everything, every kind of preprocessing, if it is… something is remaining in the backend, right? So this is everything we are going to be passing over here, and see, we are going to be initialize our trainer, okay? This is my trainer, and then finally, we are calling the train over here.
Sunny Savita: Now, once my, adapter will be trained, so my… after training the adapter, we are saving it over here. We are saving both tokenizer and adapter. Even we can pass it to the Hugging Face also, I just need to par… write the correct name of the repository and the ID.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and then, guys, you can see what we are doing, we are going to be load the model. So, same for loading a model again, we have the, basically quantized version of the inferencing. This is my base model, actually. This is my base model, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, after the base C, this is my base model, and along with the base model, I'm passing my LoRa adapter, okay? So this is what, this is my final PEFT model, this inference model, right? Now, what I'll do, guys, after that.
Sunny Savita: I will perform the inferencing. So, for the inferencing, I'll pass the prompt. So, I will tokenize this input, and I will pass this input to this particular model, inferencemodel.generate. Okay, so my input is going to be pass over here. Now, what I'm doing, I'm just going to be call this particular method over here, along with the prompt and my max token.
Sunny Savita: And then what I'm getting, guys, I'm getting the final response, right? Now, if I want to permanently merge this adapter to my model, okay, if I want to replace the previous weight, and I wanted to merge this latest adapter weight, so I will run this particular thing, and I will be able to do it. Okay, and finally, I will get my
Sunny Savita: merge model, the final model, basically. Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Now, tell me, did you get at least more?
Sunny Savita: Now, I think some of the thing is more clear now, okay? So what I'll do, guys, see, now, once… when you will get this entire thing.
Sunny Savita: So, let me write over here, just a second.
Sunny Savita: Once, I will explain to you the LoRa.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Once I will explain the LoRa, again, we'll visit this example.
Sunny Savita: Again, we'll understand that.
Sunny Savita: Right? And guys, then I'm giving you the guarantee you will get.
Sunny Savita: you will get… 999.9999%.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Because DITOL is also giving you the guarantee that it cannot remove that 0.1111% germs, correct? So, over here, guys, once I'll explain the LoRa, again, we'll revisit this particular example.
Sunny Savita: And you will understand everything. Now, tomorrow, what we will do, tomorrow, on top of the same model.
Sunny Savita: Okay, will perform.
Sunny Savita: The instruction fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Right? And then, we are going to be perform the preference fine-tuning. So guys, just give me two more classes, let me complete this entire practical, let me show you the same practical with the unsolot and all. Then I'll come to the theoretical, points, and then again, revisit this example. You will get a more clear-cut understanding. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, fine, guys, I hope you liked this session. Now, tell me how was the session, did you like it or not?
Sunny Savita: I can keep it inside the same folder, okay?
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: Now, did you understand, like, why… how to do the fine-tuning and all? I think many people are asking to me, how to do it over the, custom data set. Yeah, Shini, I'll take your question, I'll take in a doubt session, okay? Don't worry.
Sunny Savita: You can raise the hand, I'll take your questions, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, the code is updated, let me check it out. Yeah, code is here.
Sunny Savita: I pushed the code over the GitHub, please check it out there.
Sunny Savita: Please check out with the GitHub, guys, I pushed the code over there, okay?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, it is here.
Sunny Savita: So just go through with it, and
Sunny Savita: Tomorrow, guys, one more thing we'll discuss, yeah?
Sunny Savita: You can drop off the session if you don't have any doubt.
Sunny Savita: Fine, guys, you can drop the class if you don't have any doubt. If you have doubt, be here. I will take the doubts now. Okay, whatever doubts you have, you can ask.
Sunny Savita: how to train a custom dataset than what I have shown.
Sunny Savita: How about model evaluation? That we'll understand, okay? Later on, we can understand that part, model evaluation and all.
Sunny Savita: on top of the different, different metrics as we can do. Okay, in a tomorrow session, I will keep one example of that.
Sunny Savita: Evaluation, okay? Siva, don't worry.
Sunny Savita: So the model we are fine-tuning is not LLM, then… How would non-instruction fine-tuning be?
Sunny Savita: Sorry I didn't get it.
Sunny Savita: Okay, fine. So, guys, giving… give me 2 minutes, I will start a doubt session. So, whatever doubt you have, you can ask me there. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, let's start with the doubt session. If you have any doubt, please raise the hand, okay?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Mohan, what's the doubt? Please go ahead.
Sunny Savita: Mmm, just, just a second. Yeah, now can you speak again?
Sunny Savita: Okay, Bhagwandas, what's your doubt? Please go ahead.
bhagwandas armani: Thanks, sir. So, a couple of doubts I have. So, you used a train-test split, right?
bhagwandas armani: But when are you using that, waiting on the test data, in, because I did not see the code, maybe, but how are you evaluating the test model? And,
bhagwandas armani: Generally, in the machine learning, right, even if after splitting, we will evaluate what is the accuracy of the test model, okay? So, how do we test that, kind of, after loading the model, how are we going to test the accuracy of the model?
bhagwandas armani: That is question number one.
Sunny Savita: Not testing, actually, that, that is just for the evaluation purpose, okay?
bhagwandas armani: Yeah, but we will have some accuracy, right? What you can say? Quite a few accuracy models are there. Methods are there. Are we going to test that one?
Sunny Savita: So, we are going to be evaluate that, no? On top of the evaluation data, actually.
bhagwandas armani: Okay.
bhagwandas armani: And, second question is, like you said, Laura is not much to be.
Sunny Savita: I think you haven't checked the code, let me show you. Can you see the code, right?
bhagwandas armani: I can see the coding.
Sunny Savita: See, this one.
Sunny Savita: This is the training data.
Sunny Savita: This is the validation data.
Sunny Savita: So we are evaluating.
bhagwandas armani: Okay, okay, okay, call it like this, okay, we generally create a tuple of four of elements, right? So that's what I was looking. Okay, got it.
bhagwandas armani: So, now, second question is, you said that LoRa is not still merged with the original model, right? So, in that case, what you're saying is, is it… I mean, how… is it going to be separate, what you can say, the, all the… there's one hidden layer, or something like that, or is it how it's going to be in the…
Sunny Savita: It is going to be a separate set of weights.
Sunny Savita: Until we are not merging it with the model, okay?
bhagwandas armani: Okay, got you. And, the last question. See, you have used one, what you can say, tiny LLM for the embeddings. Is there a way that… is there a what you can say, correlation, or is there a method that we have to choose, like, this is the minimum size of the, what you can say, embedding that we have to generate?
bhagwandas armani: I mean, how do we have to select the embedding, basically? The question is from…
Sunny Savita: But we haven't selected the embedding over here.
bhagwandas armani: No, you've used a tiny… a tokenizer, sorry, not embedding, a tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: Tokenizer, we cannot do that, no? We're just using a pre-trained tokenizer over here, so we cannot, like, select any size and anything of the tokenizer. The block size which I made now, the block 512 block size, right? So that is an optional step, you can skip that.
Sunny Savita: But what I did, actually, see, I collected the entire data, okay, and I kept the identical
Sunny Savita: size of every paragraph, that is 512, means in my every paragraph, whatever I'm passing, there will be 512 token. Okay. Getting my point, right? So that is not an embedding, actually. That is just the size of one paragraph that I'm passing, 512 token. That's it.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: But, see, you know that context length of the model, right?
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about the GPT, what is the context length? 29,000. 28,000, up to 1 lakh, right? Jimny, 1 million. So the same thing, basically. So the block size, it is representing a save. Okay, so how much data we can pass in a single paragraph for the training purpose? I mean, how much data model is looking into the single go?
Sunny Savita: Okay? So that 512 token, it is looking into the single go, while it is trading the model. Got it?
bhagwandas armani: Okay, because, see, can I change something like a titan embeddings or something like that?
Sunny Savita: any number, you can be 50,000 over. That, again, that is not an embedding. Again, I'm saying, that is not an embedding, okay?
bhagwandas armani: What's the difference between embedding and a token? Sorry, basic question, maybe?
Sunny Savita: See, embedding means every token is going to be converted into some specific vector size, okay? Token means what? Token means it is just a part of the sentence.
Sunny Savita: Let's say, MerryPass X and Teso, so 5 tokens, sir.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
bhagwandas armani: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Every word kaya hai, toka aus every word kami, embedding mana saktaw. Getting my point.
bhagwandas armani: Okay, okay, it's our next refined version of this.
Sunny Savita: Aww.
bhagwandas armani: Okay, now, so I can replace it with any tokenizer, or is it… I mean, will it give any better accuracy if I replace, let us say, your used one tokenizer today? If I replace it with something else, will the accuracy will improve?
bhagwandas armani: on the model.
bhagwandas armani: Nope.
Sunny Savita: Regarding the tokenizer, we will be getting… regarding one… every model, we'll be getting the specific tokenizer, okay?
bhagwandas armani: Okay, with the model, there will be a tokenizer. We cannot change, we cannot go with any other model, mainly, any other tool.
bhagwandas armani: Is that a statement?
bhagwandas armani: So I think…
Sunny Savita: Sorry, I didn't get…
bhagwandas armani: So, every model will come with a specific tokenizer. We have to use, mandarately that tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: That tokenizer only. Automatically, we will get the tokenizer once you're passing the ID, okay?
bhagwandas armani: Okay, I thought, okay, I thought I can replace with any tokenizer, okay.
bhagwandas armani: Okay, good, thank you, and, it's been constructive, but maybe if tomorrow can give a big revision, we will try to rerun it. We will have some more questions, definitely, so if you give some more time tomorrow for the revision and some Q&A more, maybe better.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, sure, sure, sure.
bhagwandas armani: But it's good, mentally.
bhagwandas armani: Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Thank you, Bagwan.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Nitesh, what's your doubt?
niteshjain: Hey, hey, Sanim. Thanks, thanks for the night session. I think this session really helped to understand the entire fine-tuning pipeline, actually, so…
niteshjain: I think this we can keep continuing, like, the same way, like, theoretical part, what are the steps we are doing, as part of the process, and then we go block… code block-wise and all. This really helps to understand and give a kind of context that what is, like, each step is supposed to do.
niteshjain: So, thanks for that. My only question is that when I got into as a first-timer into this modern AI and probably fine-tuning and everything, so the first question what I have is that, is this a boilerplate code which I can apply for any fine-tuning? I mean, I can take this notebook as a reference, I just need to change the modern and the data?
niteshjain: And then the same…
niteshjain: I have to repeat, for every time. Is that a correct statement, or is that something which we can really rely on?
Sunny Savita: Yes, yes, yes.
Sunny Savita: You can take a reference, and you can do, actually.
niteshjain: Yeah, so I'm basically, if in the enterprise, if in my project, for example, in my corporate, right, if somebody comes to me, can you do a fine-tuning, do you understand the fine-tuning? I have a reference.
Sunny Savita: Oof.
niteshjain: boilerplate code, and what I need is that I need one thing that, okay, which model we… which we want to train to, and then probably what the data it has to be trained with.
niteshjain: So, if I take this, all the steps, the same code as it is, without changing anything, it is, like, good to go for a fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Matlam, you can do the fine-tuning with this code, but again, according to the requirement, you will have to change something, na? Let's say you are going to use a different preprocessing technique, the data is hosting somewhere, right? You are going to be… write that code for loading the data and all.
Sunny Savita: Correct? The core logic, core idea will be…
niteshjain: Those are enterprise-wise, the MLOps model, which we are, or the platform we are using, maybe we might be using the Ozone or S3, where the data is stored. So all of this code, obviously, the small part of it to bring the data in, to load the data out, or somewhere, that's all good.
niteshjain: It is a boilerplate code, which at least for a.
Sunny Savita: It is a baler plate code, you can utilize that, correct?
niteshjain: Okay, okay, great. Thanks. And the second part, I just try to, like, get… sometimes get confused, or maybe it becomes overwhelming for myself when I see these code blocks which are pre-pasting some… from somewhere, right? So if I… if I have to find something for myself, right?
niteshjain: So, where I can get this code from, I mean, I know that the writing it from the scratch would be a too much problem.
niteshjain: like they're using the hanging face libraries, so I'm assuming that these are the example of something, the code blocks are given in a hanging phase, where we can refer and can pick that up from there. Is it something? It gives the confidence, basically. Okay, I can get the.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, so see, when you can think by yourself, once you have understanding of that thing, right?
Sunny Savita: Correct now. Means, let's say you wanted to write this kind of code from… by yourself, whether you're such a GPT or from scratch, anywhere, right? So, if you understand the entire pipeline, if you have a basic understanding of the documentation and all, you can do that.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point.
niteshjain: Yeah, right. So, because… I mean, I don't expect that in this AI era that we might have to remember all the… by heart the syntax and everything. It doesn't really make sense for me, right? So, I just wanted to have a kind of… once I understand the pipeline that you said, okay, this is the data, custom data, we take it, we have to clean it up, then we have to do a tokenizer, then we load it, or whatever the pipeline.
niteshjain: So that concept is clear, and, like, steps are clear.
Sunny Savita: hard.
niteshjain: Concert?
Sunny Savita: That will be forever same, actually. That pipeline will be same.
niteshjain: Right, right. So, based on that pipeline, I can go to the cloud or the ChatGPT and ask them, okay, give me an interface librarian.
Sunny Savita: Correct, correct.
niteshjain: Do this right.
niteshjain: So, okay, so if this is the approach, I think, that would be good. Otherwise, I'm just kind of curious. So, are you writing this code by yourself, or is, like, probably you're taking a kind of some example from Hugging.
Sunny Savita: This is the entire process, you will have to understand that process, and then you can write that code, okay?
niteshjain: Okay. Okay.
niteshjain: All right then. Thanks, thanks, Sunny. This helps.
Sunny Savita: Thank you, Sutank.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Ashwini, what's your doubt? Please go ahead.
Aswini007: Hi, Sam, can you hear me?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, you can hoop.
Aswini007: Yeah, thank you for giving me this opportunity.
Aswini007: Actually, I… my question is that, does, like, I have, like, 12 years of experience. I have also worked in PwC, KPMG, Deloitte, and B4, all the big fours.
Aswini007: But I was specifically working on ACP.
Aswini007: But the last 2 years, I have, like, transformed myself into, this, AI, like, just started, in some projects with my internal company only.
Aswini007: I have switched to Python and all this data analytics world. So, now I have been asked to change into AI recently, so if I can change myself in this. Actually, I have done some certification from Microsoft Azure Foundry AI900.
Aswini007: Recently, so, like, this is required, and… and mostly the question is that the basics of Python is, like, we need it in advanced form, or, like, it's okay, like, which I'm, like, intermediate, kind of.
Aswini007: employee, just started, like, 2 years only. So, help me guide on this, so that I can continue my journey in this only.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so from data analytics to the AI, is it?
Aswini007: Yeah, yeah, actually, I was completely into SAP, SAP. So, in SAP, there is, like.
Sunny Savita: Got it, got it. So, see, in SAP, basically, you are working most of their, like, technologies, right? SAP technology. Like, if you wanted to switch to the AI, right? So, this is the correct roadmap for the AI, which we are learning.
Aswini007: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so…
Sunny Savita: fine-tuning, rag, agents… this is only the concept of the… basically this, generative AI, okay? So, I would suggest you, if you don't know anything, let's say if you're new to this one, where you are transitioning from the different technologies to AI, right? If you're trying to understand the AI, okay, for the current, like, trained perspective, right? So, just stick with this course.
Sunny Savita: I spent 2-3 more months, and then again, talk with me, Sunny, I understood this much, now I'm here right now. Now let's tell me what to do next. Okay, matlab.
Sunny Savita: What project I can do, okay, how basically I can understand more about the project, how to grab the project, prepare the resume, right? So, something like this. Getting my point.
Aswini007: Yes.
Sunny Savita: As of now, we are on to the, like, we just completed our 20-30% of roadmap, okay? Okay. So, our still 70% means 60-70% things are there. So, once, at least we'll be complete more 60-70%, then you will be in a good stage to understand everything. Got it?
Aswini007: Yeah, yeah. Actually, what happened, I have enrolled in Scalar for, like, 3 years now, so I've learned all this Python, everything, the basics of Pythons I know, I've made the projects also, I have also certified in neural network and conventional neural network, and CNN, and NLP certified also.
Aswini007: I have, like, one question, is that a certification helps in getting the job more clarity, or in this world, like, now, this certificate doesn't matter also?
Sunny Savita: Certification looks good in the resumes, okay, and if you are doing a certification, and if you're really utilizing that practical knowledge.
Sunny Savita: or that… whatever mentioned in that certification syllabus and all, then yeah, it is good. It's not bad, actually, right? But whoever is selling those certifications with the job guarantee, or they are saying, okay, this certificate, do this certification, you'll get a job, that is not a true.
Sunny Savita: Okay, you also know that practical knowledge is required, correct?
Aswini007: Actually, in our company, Azure Foundry, they are working on Azure Foundry only. All the APIs, they are, like, connecting with all the APIs from the… I don't know internally how much they are working, but I am… a company have asked me for transition, so I opted for this course only.
Aswini007: Do I… do I need to opt it from other… any other course in Chris Knight Academy, so that it will help me get the job in… like, they have given me?
Sunny Savita: Right now, again, I would say, right now, just stick with it. If you feel, okay, I need more specialization in any of the other thing, like RAG agents and all, you can look into that, okay?
Aswini007: Okay, okay, got, yeah, got.
Aswini007: Thank you. Thank you, Sunny. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: No, thank… Yeah, Bevik, what's your doubt. Guys, if you are done, then please, lower your hand, okay?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, baby, wait, please go ahead.
vivekkumar: Hi, Sunny. My question, it's, like, on top of, like, Nitis only, like, whatever the code you have explained, like, it's related to, like, PDF, like, dataset.
vivekkumar: And taking some specific model.
vivekkumar: And suppose, like, if I'm going to change the models, and I'm going to change the, like, dataset, like, from PDF to text, or any, like, image or audio or anything.
vivekkumar: So…
vivekkumar: Whatever the, like, pipeline you're explaining, that cleanup and all, so those things, again, it's, like, validate for that, or, like, some other pipeline, it will…
vivekkumar: Change for different dataset and different model.
Sunny Savita: Pipeline is going to be same, code and all is going to be changed, that's it.
vivekkumar: or see if you have.
Sunny Savita: to parse the data from any other document, let's say text, text, sorry, text document, or from any other one. So, you will write a code according to that. Means, conceptually, it is going to be same.
Sunny Savita: And according to the requirements, going to be changed, okay?
vivekkumar: How this cleaning and all relevant for the, like, different dataset, like, image and all, it's… it will be there.
Sunny Savita: See, this kind of cleaning will not be required. Another different cleaning will be required for the images.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Some noise removal, some shortness, or, like, some size reduction of the images and all. This kind of cleaning will be required. Got it?
vivekkumar: Okay. Yeah. And, like, and suppose, like, whatever the data set, like, you have taken, like, it's very small, like, it's some MB. Like, we have some big data set, like 5GB or 10GB, or some mode bigger.
vivekkumar: Then, how we will proceed, like, with those datasets, like…
Sunny Savita: So, for handling those datasets, we required those kind of infrastructure.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so let's say if you have data in GBs, you cannot, like, keep it on simple, basically on any device, you can load it. For that, you will maybe require the Databricks, okay, where you can load the data with the help of Spark and Batches, okay?
Sunny Savita: Getting my point. So, you will be required the proper data pipeline for that.
vivekkumar: So this collab will not help on that, there?
Sunny Savita: So, kese kolabar karega. Dehta 10 GBK data case dalogether.
Sunny Savita: Kese upload karoge batau. Aapko past phone, ek jibee ka, usme aap das jibiga kese saman dalogi.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, enterprise version le baha pe o jayiga, nitapna server setup karlo run port, use karloh baha the paper space hai, AWS pekarloh, data bricks pekarloh, ne saareto option ha uskele hai. Base code same rahiga, abisko kisibi server pe aap celalo.
Sunny Savita: Atai na.
Sunny Savita: Kisi dusare Stadium mein keloh, Ahmedabad kello, Bangalore keloh, Kolkata keloh, out of India keloh, kilthriti rahio na?
vivekkumar: Hmm.
Sunny Savita: I'm just saying.
Sunny Savita: core fundamentals same rahiga. But todasa tweak kar dunga mein poster platform ka recording, bada data hoga, toh mein body jijay batches mein data load karunga, I'll use the Spark for that, for data pipeline, right? I will use the streaming concept.
vivekkumar: ak.
Sunny Savita: PySpark use curling usekelle hain.
vivekkumar: Okay, okay, okay. Suppose, like, big data set kili cons a LLM embedding user sekta hain, 3, even…
vivekkumar: LLM more.
Sunny Savita: Editor Kellye… Sorry I didn't get.
vivekkumar: No, like, for embedding, like, which LLM model, like, I can use for, like, bigger data set, like 5G or 10GB?
Sunny Savita: Bigger… same model, any model can work, okay.
vivekkumar: Any model?
Sunny Savita: We don't pass entire data in single shot to any embedding model. We pass it to the chunk. So from the 10GB data set also, we can create a multiple chunk, and we can pass it to the model.
Sunny Savita: If you're passing 10GB data in single store to any LLM model, it will generate the same dimension of embedding, okay? So, we generally pass the data into the chunks, actually. Got it?
vivekkumar: And for chunk, like, we have to use, like, a Spark and all.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
vivekkumar: Clean.
vivekkumar: Okay, yeah, thank you.
Sunny Savita: No. Dink.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Yash, what's your doubt?
Yash Shukla: Sir, my doubt was regarding the previous,
Yash Shukla: week's class, it was regarding, that, you know, custom data set.
Yash Shukla: So, the new…
Yash Shukla: you know, wrote the code about I Love AI and I Love ML, so when I saw it, you know, deeply, then I found out that the ML keyword was, divided into two words, M, and it was, later the L was, you know, written as triple, hashtag, and then L.
Yash Shukla: So, I came to know that there are few words which are breaking down, or which combine to make a new world, like ML. So…
Yash Shukla: in that, concept of tokenization, how do we know that which world will break into several other letters or several other worlds? And is there any concept of post-processor also?
Sunny Savita: Hmm… Sorry, I didn't get… regarding what you're asking, you were asking regarding tokenization.
Yash Shukla: Yes, regarding tokenization, last time, when we were, tokenizing, or we were making the words include individual…
Sunny Savita: That, we are not deciding that thing, actually, that algorithm is deciding it.
Sunny Savita: WordPiece or BP, whatever algorithm you are using, no? So internally, it has been designed in such a way that it is doing only, or character-wise, it is separating the data, okay? So this is not in our hand. We can do that level of customization, you can check out with that BP class, maybe it would be there, but again.
Sunny Savita: That is being done by that algorithm only, got it?
Yash Shukla: And sir, so regarding this only, for example, if the ML keyword, ML world is divided as M and L, and we are getting two tokens for one word.
Yash Shukla: So, when we will, when these tokens will get into the transformer for word embedding and for, you know, positional encoding, embedding. So, the word ML will have the two tokens, or they will again combine during the word embedding to make a unique
Yash Shukla: token for ML keywords.
Sunny Savita: Correct, correct. It will find out lots of permutation combinations. Once you will check the vocabulary creation, I've shown you one JSON file, there you will get.
Yash Shukla: Yes, sir, yes, sir.
Sunny Savita: Yo.
Yash Shukla: Answer one more thing, regarding that, only Jason, when I was studying about the, you know, separators, like, there were two versions, separator and CLS at the starting end. So, it is also seen that when we were, customized, custom training the data, so we didn't do something like post-processor. But when I came to know that BERT uses post-processor in its, code or Elgo.
Yash Shukla: So is it necessary for us to, you know, always make the sentence starting from CLS and then again using the keyword SEP as separator, or we can do without this also, that whole process?
Sunny Savita: For BERT, it is required, actually, because we are using Hugging Face now, so…
Yash Shukla: Yes, sir.
Sunny Savita: According to Hugging phase, we'll have to follow that one.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Because, see, for BERT, it is required separator and CLS BERT, and the same thing is coded inside the Hugging Face also. So, if we are using Hugging Face, then yes, we'll have to follow the same approach. Got it?
Yash Shukla: CLSN separator, they separate the sentence and the algorithm.
Sunny Savita: wo separater ke basis pai wo, wo karta, next sentence prediction. Ek MLM pay aur NSP pay. Toh separator sehi wo next sentence ko, find out karta koan sa next sentence, actually.
Yash Shukla: After each order normally, bohne dihi se, abhi ja se jo class, likibi jo class, thief class kar fine-tuning kar abhi.
Yash Shukla: aka.
Yash Shukla: recording niyu pari. Jaba aap karte radar pura times samajne mei jarai wohoding nahiupari.
Sunny Savita: There's a class you can revise, no?
Yash Shukla: Yes, I think this is…
Sunny Savita: You have 5 days, correct? If you are sitting at least 1 or 2 days now, it will be fine. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Deko, recording Pura ni deko, pelek aaprin live class attend Karia, you have the entire solution.
Yash Shukla: Yes.
Sunny Savita: So, run that solution from your end, first.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now, whichever part you're not able to understand, go to the recording and understand.
Sunny Savita: Okay, if you don't want to watch that, don't worry, just keep that doubt with you. Ask in a doubt session, that's it, right? So, focus karo, self-study pageada. Whether it's the video content, right, or any kind of…
Sunny Savita: self-study karna seeko. If you are able to write anything, if you are able to read anything by yourself, that will for sure increase your, this focus, okay? It will make your understanding very good.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, rather to watch out the video or any, like, content and all, right, the video content, focus on the self-study, right?
Yash Shukla: to go with for the help of executive or float.
Sunny Savita: you have a code, you have an AI assistant with you, you have your pen and paper, right?
Yash Shukla: Beautiful.
Sunny Savita: Go with that approach. Learn by yourself, read by yourself, understand just by reading the thing. Okay, usitura memory shah hotay. Long run kili hote. Abih main doubt, Krakesh kumar karke, like he's, saying.
Sunny Savita: Instead, but it's difficult to connect the dots and sometimes feel losing. So, ab injun, woke, they don't revise anything.
Sunny Savita: They're just coming into the session with that mentality, okay, sir will teach everything. He will, he will, like, connect a dot from very first session of the transformer, then he'll come to the… all the LLMs, APIs, and then again, he will connect the dot in a fine-tuning, you know, like this, okay? But it is not…
Sunny Savita: practical thing. You cannot do. If I'm doing that thing, then when I will write the code and I'll tease that.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so…
Sunny Savita: Rakesh and the other people who think like that, they're not revising the thing. They don't have their pen and paper handy, actually. They haven't written anything by their, themselves, okay? That's why this kind of doubts comes. So my genuine advice to all of you, please revise the concept. Got it?
Yash Shukla: Oh, it's just safe. Yeah. I'm too safe.
Sunny Savita: Big.
Sunny Savita: Okay, THR, what's your doubt?
THR: Hi, Sunny. Thank you for opportunity.
THR: So, I have a few questions, actually. So, what exactly is token, Sunny?
Sunny Savita: EOS recommends end of sentence token.
THR: So how, so, actually…
Sunny Savita: And every… see, we are passing, like, this one, no? Sentences, multiple paragraphs, sentences to the… for the training, right? Let's say we are passing first row, second row, so how the model is discriminating that? So, it is adding one, a special token at the end of the sentence, that is US token, that's it, got it?
THR: Like, in the decoder, whenever, in the decoder, you explain, right, that you…
Sunny Savita: Start of sentence now, right? Have you seen the start of sentence, right? So in the same way, it's end of sentence, that's it.
THR: Okay. But, I have one question, sorry, here. Padding… pad token, right? So, how is… how the… how the model…
THR: when it is pre-training, like, whenever, tokenizer is getting right, so how PAT token is getting added? So, like, you know, let's say you said, explain, you know, a very good explanation, I'll… I… suddenly, like, yeah, I,
THR: So, AI and some of the things, right, 0, 0 added, right? So, there is pad token, but how the model is going to add zeros, or whatever numbers, actually?
THR: at runtime, how it's going to add. So, depending on the length of the.
Sunny Savita: In pre-processing only, it will be added, no.
THR: Yeah, yeah, but how it's going to add, actually? So, what is the fixer length… depending on fixer length of the…
THR: Sentence, or… Maximum sentence?
Sunny Savita: maximum word, sorry, maximum, length of the sentence, uske according is going to be add, okay?
Sunny Savita: It's going to be perform the padding.
THR: So, sentence… sentence is nothing but, you know, if… let's go, I mean, if I go to basic rights, sentence is nothing but collection of words, right?
Sunny Savita: Hmm, got it.
THR: So… so collection of words is, like, let's say, how… how model is determining how many words I need to take per each sentence?
THR: Oh, Martin.
Sunny Savita: No, sir, we are passing now, we are passing… solution, meh.
THR: I'm sorry, sir, I was gonna give to, you know, I just want to get clarified, actually, yeah.
Sunny Savita: So, first tell me, have you gone through with this entire solution?
THR: Yeah, yeah, but parameters and multiple understands are, like, you know, I was thinking… I was… still am in the black box of, you know, we're just sending the token.
Sunny Savita: Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Sunny Savita: Now, see over here.
Sunny Savita: Sweet.
Sunny Savita: Oh.
Sunny Savita: So… what I'm saying over here, I'm saying tokenizer.petoken.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: If there is no any special token for the padding inside this tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: then what we have to do, the end of the sentence token, which we have, right, uses a padding tokenizer. This is clear.
THR: Okay, yeah.
Sunny Savita: Clear or not?
Sunny Savita: I told you, we have two types of padding. One is a zero padding, Yeah, what is…
THR: wedding.
Sunny Savita: embedding, right?
THR: Yeah, yeah.
Sunny Savita: We can use any special token also for the padding.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And that special token is a US token. Okay? Standard practice. I'm not saying that. Okay. Only Hugging Face is saying. Okay? Use that. Here, I'm saying use the right padding if it is required.
Sunny Savita: I'm not doing any padding over here against C. I'm just going to be initialize the config parameter, that's it. No padding, nothing is happening. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Now see over here.
Sunny Savita: When I'm passing the text to the tokenizer, are we doing any padding over here?
THR: No.
Sunny Savita: what I have written, just read it out over here. Token adjacent text without padding.
Sunny Savita: Padding is handled dynamically by the… Collector.
THR: Collector. Okay, collector, okay.
Sunny Savita: No padding, nothing. If you will look into this tokenizer, into this particular class, you will find out there is one parameter also for the padding.
Sunny Savita: Even we can perform the padding over here as well.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point. Now, what kind of padding? Right padding.
Sunny Savita: Kya hota right peding ka meaning, write mein, bachewe token ko at karna. Bache we special token ko at karna jih ye.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, right? Right maker, no? Yeah?
Sunny Savita: Good evening, please?
THR: Instead of zero, you'll get a UAS token.
Sunny Savita: Ha, okay. Till here, everything is clear, right? I'll be there for you.
THR: Okay, one second, sir. Can you go back to that, you know, example, sir?
THR: And, just now you opened, Blackboard.
THR: So, in the blackboard, So my question here on this, are like, you know, how…
THR: Sentence, like, how… how model is determining
THR: this intense, actually. So, how many… how many collection of what should be there? So, are we doing any configuration for the model? So, like, oh, you have to… you have to…
THR: You have to take each sentence by 7 sentence. The sentence has a multiple collection of words, so you should only take, these many words in sentence. Are you doing any, you know,
THR: Configuration, sir?
THR: In the tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: Sir, why… that's what I'm saying, see here, if group text for that only I return,
Sunny Savita: What is a block size?
Sunny Savita: what is a block? So, 512, I was saying, no? So, 512 token I'm giving for the training.
THR: Okay, 512 tokens per each entry.
Sunny Savita: See, I can give the direct sentence also, or I can divide the data like this also. I can group like this also. Both is fine.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, no.
THR: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the code.
Sunny Savita: This one, where I'm grouping the data in 512 token and providing that, okay?
THR: Means, each and every, let's say, 1, 2, the length of the 1 will be 512, sir, you're trying to say?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, 512-512, 512, right?
Sunny Savita: That's it.
Sunny Savita: 512 tokens, we are passing. That's it.
THR: Okay, okay, okay, I got now, okay. So, one more thing, sir, like, trainable params, so you said some things are, like, you know, pay… trainable params is 1 billion, and, all parents is 1 billion, something you said, right, sir?
THR: So, what exactly is that? Like, it's a… like, we used to call, you know, in a cloud code, it's a, you know, 7 billion parameter, like, it's a teeny algorithm also 1 billion parameter synthesis? One… one…
THR: One comma, double one, or something is there, so, like, it's… you measure somewhere.
Sunny Savita: 1 billion parameter means 1 billion bits and biases, okay?
THR: So, can we do the same with trainable params, function calling? I mean, we… model.trainParam, something you called, sir, in the… in the notebook somewhere. So, can we do at the end of, at the end of…
THR: inference model, like, after all the train, so what is the trainable params for… Like, let's say you train…
Sunny Savita: If you're checking with the adapter, you will be getting that, okay?
THR: Yeah, yeah, that's what… okay.
Sunny Savita: You will be getting the same number if you're checking with the adapter, got it?
THR: So now, it's going to add, weights to the model, also, like, let's say, base model is 1 billion, and you're, you're training, one more dataset, 1 billion. So, it should be 1 billion, 1 billion, sir? How it's going to…
THR: At the… at the end of the.
Sunny Savita: Scale AI, for that, you will have to understand the LoRa, na. Did I explain the LoRa?
THR: low right now, you did not expect.
Sunny Savita: I asked you sometime,
Sunny Savita: Just give me one or two more classes, I can explain… see, let me show you the LoRa one, how it works, just a second.
Sunny Savita: If you're curious right now, I can show you that.
Sunny Savita: I simply, I told you to just check out this code right now, nothing else you have to do.
Sunny Savita: Si.
Sunny Savita: what happened, actually, inside the LORA, huh?
Sunny Savita: Let's say this is my metrics, okay?
Sunny Savita: This is what? This is my weight matrix.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point. So what is the weight matrix? You know?
Sunny Savita: Let's say this is my 1 billion bid.
Sunny Savita: Just think, this is my 1 billion bet.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, what we do inside the low runner, we divide this, we decompose this metrics in such a way into two smaller metrics we do, right? So let's say this is my one matrix.
Sunny Savita: We are going to be decompose this matrix in such a way that the number of parameters is going to be less, but the meaning would be same of that.
Sunny Savita: Meaning of… meaning of both would be same means what? If we are going to be multiplying that, we'll be getting a same matrix, okay? So just look over here, what is a… how many number of parameters we have? We have a 20, right? Now here, if we are going to be divide this particular para… matrix into the 2-1, if we are going to be decomposed it like that, we have 18 parameters.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so this is the concept of the LoRa, that we have a bigger matrix, let's say 1 billion of weights inside one model, so we are going to be divide that matrix, we are going to divide the weight in such a way, there's going to be a smaller weight.
Sunny Savita: Okay, the smaller number of parameters, and that we are taking for the training. We are not taking this all the weights, we are taking this weights, which is representing to this weight in the form of decomposition. Getting my point?
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: So this is a lower, actually. So that's why that 1 billion will be… no, it's not true. If you have a 1 billion parameter inside the tiny llama, in that model, if we are going to be using the lower adapter, that number could be reduced, that trainable parameter number, again, going to be reduced.
THR: accuracy, how accuracy will maintain, like, if you are decreasing the power…
Sunny Savita: It will decrease, not completely, but yeah, why it will not decrease completely? Because we are going to be sustaining the meaning, right, of these metrics only in the form of these two metrics. Getting my point?
THR: So, can we see the loss function these notebooks are like? How the loss is, let's say.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, weekends.
THR: For each and every epoch, what is the loss?
THR: Can we see…
Sunny Savita: Yeah, we can see now there. I will include that result, okay? Don't worry.
THR: Okay, yeah, yeah, so, yeah.
THR: Okay, I think I'm good, sir.
THR: Yeah.
THR: It's great.
Sunny Savita: Think.
Sunny Savita: Your stage warts it out.
Tej: So, Sunny, I was following this,
Tej: collab that you were giving, right? So…
Tej: Or number… TK, like, number 12, right, where you're doing tokenizing and text packing.
Tej: Udar say, no, I could not follow your pace. I… I felt behind there. Don't mind, can you explain that again? I'm gonna paragraph Leilia, right? I'm gonna PDF Lelia, and then… then we extracted the text from the PDF, right? And then…
Tej: Now we want to, you know, put them into appropriate paragraphs and do the cleanup, right?
Tej: Toot… if you can open that collab, right, or tokenization…
Tej: Okay, Pase, I'm a little lost from there.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, here is a tokenization.
Tej: This is the part… we either care or, like, we… we've taken… a packed token cow there.
Sunny Savita: Pet token hota, sir, ye mein padding samjai na aapko ye hota pet token.
Sunny Savita: Yes.
Tej: empty token, kaouda.
Sunny Savita: Yes. If we have a sentence, which is, like, mismatching in the length, that's it.
Tej: Okay.
Tej: So I'll be going with the flow, amne Pilipedia, we extracted the text from there, right?
Sunny Savita: Hmm.
Tej: So, and then you were removing the extra characters in space. O abhorai ki, o bhad me a.
Sunny Savita: karlia.
Sunny Savita: uske baat tokenization kiya.
Tej: Daldiya, right?
Sunny Savita: model ko load kia.
Sunny Savita: And parameters have defined karke, or skot train kart ya, that's it.
Tej: No, no, this is where I'm losing, like.
Tej: right? Toh.
Sunny Savita: This methodology, sorry.
Tej: size of 52 batches medallionamne.
Sunny Savita: nahi ek blog banadi.
Tej: Okay. So, hum model load ka, karne se palei usko batch method, right? Or a padding ka token abi uska concept abhiniata, right? That is for.
Sunny Savita: padding.
Tej: So, I bet that…
Sunny Savita: US token ko, amna padding boldi, amna externally koi pedding nikki, api tarapsei.
Tej: Take care. But, in terms of concept-wise, Pilehamid, data extract here, fit, data cohuminate, tokens may…
Sunny Savita: pipeline here.
Tej: fast bowl rah last few sessions mein.
Tej: That's all being…
Sunny Savita: fine-tuning wala notebook complete nahi karta. Toh fits yapanko kal beach mein se pakal kei karni parti. Abi dukoi 5 tuning wala notebook complete hogya, toh kal mein aapko iska revijan de 2 mahikba. Mana bola na aapse, ki mein aaph
Sunny Savita: That's the world.
Tej: And, you know, ito interactive session binah ko aapko, KBham, we cannot even stop you, right? Toh wo bhi o rah, right? Toh…
Tej: we would not join the class, right? So, OBA.
Sunny Savita: Complete karne hai, to meh tulalosko fast pace meleek ja sakdauna, apne pass pura bhi do chaarpa che main uponge classman ko samasakte hain.
Sunny Savita: Per se, okay men bola na, jaischich fitsa repeat hoagi.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Oh fine.
Tej: What is Cora, medical.
Sunny Savita: Hi, ye repetitive step hai, toh e class pagliki asan ni suchana chai hai.
Sunny Savita: Somewhat y'all.
Tej: I'll be either simple, and if you can please go back to that screen, right? I'm still lost, right?
Tej: Toh, egg bar merco samjadi hai. So, hamne data lilya, hamne ferusko, tokas met Aliya, right? If you can please go back to that screen share again.
Sunny Savita: The data layer for Kia, sorry.
Sunny Savita: secrets.
Tej: PDF extraction, explaining knowledge, okay, data creation cardi, right? Software.
Tej: We are chatting, if you can please go back to that.
Tej: fast first things move jaata, na, because .
Sunny Savita: data hai.
Tej: Okay.
Sunny Savita: PDF mein data available,
Tej: Huh.
Sunny Savita: Abih mene ke kia, deta ko extrat kixt kia.
Sunny Savita: Of his data ko extrat karke, kya kya.
Sunny Savita: Amnesko clean karlia.
Tej: Huh.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: A clean karke kayaki hamne.
Sunny Savita: multiple rows o gai.
Tej: Hmm.
Sunny Savita: Os me maripat text tag.
Tej: Abyss.
Sunny Savita: mein.
Sunny Savita: Hugging face time, fine-tuning karne ha, hugging face volume
Sunny Savita: is ko, format ma convert kartia.
Sunny Savita: Dicker?
Tej: So, because we are using Hugging Face for fine-tuning, we have to convert the data to match Hugging Face.
Sunny Savita: Hugging Face compatible format mein convert karate. Me nek code offline lekhaw vai aapde kenge, sama jayiga aapko. Got it? Uske baad firke ki amna deko. Ap hamare pass data to a gya.
Sunny Savita: Final Data Radier.
Sunny Savita: Got it?
Sunny Savita: apne LLM course pa fine-tune karna hai kna.
Tej: Okay.
Sunny Savita: I know.
Sunny Savita: LLM pe jum data ko fine-tuned karte hain, toh many aapko pele bhi bohata, LLM kom data direct ni jete.
Sunny Savita: Amka karte hain, tokenization karte data kamat lab.
Sunny Savita: Kisi bh LLM mem ko data pass karna hai, tohabit tokenization karenge. Ado ko tokenization kya hotai, data ko.
Sunny Savita: idea assign hojati hai.
Tej: Hello?
Sunny Savita: preprocessing ka aur di khadiata, meeneka kayais mein, meenei group of text banal dia, matla meenek kya, apjase mere past
Sunny Savita: Patch paragraph there.
Sunny Savita: Our sparse paragraph, mere pass, let's say.
Sunny Savita: So, sorry, 1000 token hogai, right? Toh mein kehnpanso ke group banal lia hai.
Sunny Savita: Okay, by Panzo token, Panzo token, Panzo token ka, sa group banadium.
Sunny Savita: a minute, right?
Tej: Oh, is…
Sunny Savita: LLM mein load kiya. LLM console load kiya, meh, doh chija kari. Mene LLM keeper pela toh quantization laga dia.
Sunny Savita: Right? Dusra menege kiya is Q per fare.
Sunny Savita: lower adapter kartia. Anna? Abih de ko ye concept, apna samajna baki hai, ana, uponge kya hotai, right? Abis ke bajabi hoge habna LLM radihogea, tomarak kya banga base LLM mangea.
Sunny Savita: Anna? Ahamne kea kaisare training argument hai, right? Unko configure kia.
Sunny Savita: final model ko train kar dia.
Sunny Savita: Toh, Hamara actually may train kiya hua lower adapter trade ho gya.
Sunny Savita: I don't know.
Sunny Savita: Toh, hamarepa kiara, toku Hamaripa sekh base model rah, ya base model?
Sunny Savita: Plus, samaripas aage amara LoRa adapter, ye train adapter agaya.
Sunny Savita: Do I?
Tej: To adapter kia outtawa.
Sunny Savita: Adapter kya outta ye set of weightsi hota.
Sunny Savita: Set off.
Sunny Savita: Weirds out there.
Sunny Savita: Boh?
Tej: Hmm.
Sunny Savita: Purebit, it's a 1 billion ham.
Sunny Savita: Per Meneke and 1 million beet ko is 30ki sa decompose kiya.
Sunny Savita: Ki 1 billion ki jag abi Sarev, 1 CRE rah guy.
Sunny Savita: So your load adapter kara, set of weight the hinge, okay, small weight seam.
Sunny Savita: Model mein amare basement, boho sare weight se hain. Tekini load adapter mein amare pass.
Sunny Savita: Come bit, a subset of weights.
Sunny Savita: Someday.
Sunny Savita: parameter efficient fine-tuning ki. That partial parameters lia. That's a subset of parameter lia ya peh.
Tej: Like, also train here now.
Tej: This world has 1 billion parameters. Usme ek specific set lek hai, usko hum train karke, that is, we are calling as LoRa adapter.
Sunny Savita: Correct. Correct. ModelTrain kar kiosko save karliya, firsko load kerliya.
Sunny Savita: That's it. Bus itane tokia haemne puri processed mein. Got it.
Tej: So, ye your last piece, that is where I could not understand, like, Even Princess, for example.
Sunny Savita: repeat kar rahu class mein.
Sunny Savita: Huh?
Tej: Huh, they can…
Sunny Savita: agar last ki kochik sail upon hai, fast pace mein cover karle, toh tuvar ako revisan kar lingi, na, kal.
Tej: Maybe just a small suggestion,
Tej: Like, sentence to sentence, maybe, gap name irre ha.
Sunny Savita: project manager.
Sunny Savita: rag agent sundge code a henge, toh aapko bot difficulty ahale firus kes mein. Toh vai mein boluma, deoda aapko bhi patients rena pal legat revision karna padlega chijoka. Or, ki programming, coding karna… programming samajana, coding semaja, not a big challenge, aapko multiple ways bhi bhata aung.
Sunny Savita: aapko jimne walaikan dikhaya, right?
Tej: up to rent?
Sunny Savita: with the help of AI, or iba chap.
Tej: This is what is happening is, dominate.
Tej: Then the next section and all, we're not able to catch up.
Tej: I'm just giving you, like, you know, honest feedback. Like, I be… first four classes, you know, you were, like, you know, in your own.
Sunny Savita: Abi tough class koi bhai gina, abi koi bhi tough class ay first aapko y lagi ga. Okay?
Sunny Savita: 11 pile, 12 padlei, college pile. Her class, her subject, her chapter ik ja thorina hotai. Ham mal low, am bet ke kabih thermodynamics per teeth, fijaks mein, puttaputatha.
Sunny Savita: Hum koi simple chapter, jaseki humna modern physics partito simple hoti ti, SAYB hai. Fine-tuning tough part chapter hai, esli harkoi nahi padata hai sabh.
Sunny Savita: aka.
Tej: So, I was just taking, like, online Udemy and stuff like that, bootcamp together. But, sorry, just not taking more of your time. Merko, if you don't mind ig bar, meriko aap…
Tej: Apne aapke ajke class me kbar.
Tej: Can you take me to the LoRa fine-tuning validation loss code capacity, or adapt receiving capas, Igbar?
Tej: Tohamne Kariyat organization, Firamne, Padding Korea, then,
Tej: You can just take me to that place, right?
Tej: So, either K or H2 samples I have, OSAP, they're all tokens of that, right?
Sunny Savita: Which one? Sorry?
Tej: see, in the process of data, right? Abhjab.
Tej: model load kare, Igbar Udar jayana, model kaape load kare aapne.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, what I'm not alone.
Tej: So… Either model load karke hamne o train data isko pass karti hamne either.
Tej: Hola.
Sunny Savita: research.
Tej: Some of the other DM.
Tej: Thank you, I'll take it, but…
Sunny Savita: Thikkei?
Tej: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I am a developer, right?
Tej: So this is the one that we…
Sunny Savita: model ko, the training parameter ko, ini slice kart ya. Yaha peh, yeh.
Sunny Savita: Right? Trending? Sorry, Yevala.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, your training argument.
Sunny Savita: Take a year.
Sunny Savita: aapan.
Sunny Savita: model.
Sunny Savita: training argument.
Sunny Savita: Training dataset, validation data set, data collater. Avin sab komne kaask kiya, either pass kiya. Trainer mein, right? Ye trainer mein. Around na simple train kar dia bus.
Tej: Hello?
Sunny Savita: apnail eithera, trainer meinay.
Sunny Savita: Ishwale. Got it?
Tej: And this is still part of fine-tuning itself.
Sunny Savita: save trainer kwarves kya utan, right? Toh uskaran se thudasa, abh yoguchne hai, ye word argumenta john dictionary format dirahin, actually.
Tej: I don't know.
Sunny Savita: So, if trainer aapna klase, abte ko ye klase apun kahase import karne.
Tej: Hmm.
Sunny Savita: aapko multiple times share kiya, agar aap ekbar search bhi adhlete, de ko mein.
Tej: Put the conversation.
Tej: I know.
Sunny Savita: import statement se REA, yaha se.
Sunny Savita: already transformer se import kara ka hai. The ko auto tokenizer kara, kiya, yay kya data. Trainer ki aye, trainer training argument ki aye. Hano?
Tej: Nick.
Sunny Savita: Got it? Toh aap egbar revision karo, ekbar mekalapsko firsayk use case lege samjaduma, pela instruction fine-tuning samjenge, faree samjenge, aur body aujaya aapka fine-tuning a concept. Got it?
Tej: So, our saving app, adapter may save cart… can be fair than reload car, I also.
Sunny Savita: kya, got it?
Tej: Okay, thank you, Sunny.
Sunny Savita: Dink.
Sunny Savita: Okay, Tej is done now. Mohan, what's your doubt?
Sunny Savita: Mohan, do you have any doubt?
Mohan: Oh, no, I don't have one.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Ganindra, do you have any doubt, Ganindra?
Gnanendra T: Yeah, hi, Sunny. I would like to thank you for giving me opportunity. Actually, I'm a new joine. Today is my first class, so can you guide me, like, how can I speed up,
Gnanendra T: So, like, a previous class is mandated to complete to understand the upcoming classes. Actually, my background is, like, in Udemy, I bought that, Genet AI bootcamp, researcher course, and, Python and Gen AI, and only NLP. These three parts completed.
Gnanendra T: So, that is my background. So, based on this, can you guide me? Like, today I joined, so, this course.
Sunny Savita: So, what you can do, you can, basically start with this current course only, right? This NLP and generative way, it's a previous course. So, we have given the access of the previous course also. So, let's say, someone wants to cover anything in a fast pace.
Gnanendra T: Right?
Sunny Savita: So, they can refer the previous course, okay?
Gnanendra T: But for.
Sunny Savita: the most, latest solution in the, basically, for the latest, content and all, you can follow the current one only. Got it?
Gnanendra T: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So you joined today, right? So you have so many pending classes.
Sunny Savita: from day 1st itself, correct? So in the weekdays, actually, you can cover from the first class itself. You can learn the concept of the embedding, encoding, transformer, and the fundamental theory and all of the fine-tuning, and then you can carry on the live classes also, okay?
Gnanendra T: Okay, plenary-like, practice, and, both, right? So, recording video.
Sunny Savita: Got it.
Gnanendra T: practice, so on weekdays, and as usual, weekends, these sessions, and also this practice.
Sunny Savita: Yes, yes, right.
Gnanendra T: Okay, okay. So, like, if, like, delaying, right, previous classes, so further classes, it'd be difficult to understand?
Gnanendra T: Or is that fine?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, first class, if you join in the middle of the session, then it, it would be, so better to go through with the previous class, okay? Or if any new module is going to be start.
Sunny Savita: You can pick up from there itself. Got it?
Gnanendra T: Okay, but suppose RAG going to start, so that would be, like, not a… I mean, as a starting, so it… I can understand, but this one, like, a bit in lag only. So you are saying, like, new, topics, so that… that should be fine, but pre… in continuation, so we have to cover the previous ones. Correct.
Sunny Savita: Correct, got it, got it.
Gnanendra T: Yeah, sure, sure. Yeah, thank you, Cindy, thank you so much.
Sunny Savita: Thank you, sir.
Sunny Savita: Oh, good, no… Sandeep… Do you have any doubt?
Sunny Savita: Okay, Dipesh, do you have any doubt?
Dipesh Pandey: Hey, Sunny.
Dipesh Pandey: Am I audible?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, you can go ahead.
Dipesh Pandey: Okay, I think I, I might have, resolved that issue. I was going through the core, and I was having some issue on there. So, one thing, I'm from U.S, like, do you guys have any plans to, have the… run the doubt session for the US, candidates?
Sunny Savita: So it… is it an odd time for you? Means, facing any difficulty this time?
Dipesh Pandey: I'm on the Eastern Time Zone, so I can, you know, when it becomes a little bit longer, like, I have to run somewhere.
Dipesh Pandey: You know?
Dipesh Pandey: So.
Sunny Savita: What is our, time right now there?
Dipesh Pandey: It's, afternoon, 2.30, around 2.30.
Sunny Savita: Okay, it's afternoon, no, right?
Dipesh Pandey: Yeah, yeah.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, so I think this is one and only doubt session, the page.
Sunny Savita: So, whatever doubts you have related to this batch, you can ask there. Actually, we started this batch to keep our U.S. audience in our mind, right? So, we know, right, if we are going to be starting afternoon or an
Sunny Savita: Or in evening, right? So, it's going to be odd for you, but I think this time is fine. Maybe you can, join, right? For solving a doubt.
Dipesh Pandey: Fo…
Dipesh Pandey: Yeah, definitely, I can join on the morning from 10 to 1, or 10, you know, sometime I can run up to 10, 1.30 or 2, right? After that, I have to, you know, it's weekends, and, you know, we were just looking for the US people, like, if we can run, you know, sometime once a week on the evening, you know.
Dipesh Pandey: That way, we can, you know,
Dipesh Pandey: clarify some of other labs questions, too.
Sunny Savita: I thought, like, some…
Dipesh Pandey: At some point.
Sunny Savita: Apart from this doubt session, we don't have any live doubt session, okay? So if you have anything, any query, you can directly connect with me, you can drop me a mail, okay? So based on your query, I can give you the time. Got it?
Dipesh Pandey: Okay, that's perfectly fine. Like, mail, how do I get your email address?
Sunny Savita: I already shared multiple times, let me share in the chat, okay, wait.
Dipesh Pandey: Okay, can you share your… sorry, I didn't regard that.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, nobody's not. I'm sharing justice.
Dipesh Pandey: Yep.
Dipesh Pandey: I remember there was, you know, on one of the week, there was… okay, SNS… okay, I got that, okay, I will, I'll drop you an email.
Dipesh Pandey: some point in the past, like, there was one week, you guys have, ran the, you know, there was a poll going on, you know, for the US candidates, to have the doubt session. You know, after that, I didn't saw any poll over there.
Sunny Savita: No, I haven't launched any such poll in the class. In which class you are talking about? In this one only, or any other one?
Dipesh Pandey: We got… we got some email, right? We got some email, like…
Sunny Savita: Or, let's.
Dipesh Pandey: You'd like me.
Sunny Savita: Check, with my team then, okay?
Dipesh Pandey: Yes, they were running, and after that, we never run… we never got.
Sunny Savita: I'm not, you know?
Dipesh Pandey: So, what I'm suggesting or requesting, whatever you guys can take, like, you know, it's up to you guys, like, once in an evening time zone, like, for the Eastern time zone, in the evening time.
Dipesh Pandey: Like, if you guys can, you know, once a week for an hour, you know, if you guys can run, like, that way we can coordinate more, you know, and we can have some, you know, we will go through our lab, and if we have some more queries, we can, you know, have that.
Sunny Savita: Sure, so if any mail or any poll you got, let me check out there, because I'm not aware about it. For my batch, especially. So, we'll have to check that, okay?
Dipesh Pandey: Yeah, yeah, that's it. That is only the request I have at this moment. But most of the doubt, like, I was sitting on the session, you know, and I was hearing other people query, you know, that has clarified, clarified some of my queries too, you know.
Sunny Savita: Oh, that's, that's great. I think, yeah, that's a correct approach, Deepish.
Dipesh Pandey: I was just listening to a lot of people's queries, like, you know, that helped a lot, you know. But thank you for everything, you know?
Sunny Savita: Thank you.
Dipesh Pandey: I'll… yeah, I'll try to connect with the email, okay?
Sunny Savita: Sure, sure, sure.
Sunny Savita: Thank you. Thank you, Dipesh. Sandeep, do you have any doubt?
Sandeep: Yeah, Sunny, so basically,
Sandeep: when we're loading these models and training them with the, you know, the type of model that we're loading, we… it comes with the weights, right? And then we run the inference all the way up to inferencing, right?
Sandeep: When these models are, you know, ready, possibly as a copy, it again goes into the embedded vector size in the form of tensor.
Sandeep: back into the hugging phase, or, you know, what is… is this the correct approach, what I'm talking, or…
Sandeep: Is it something different?
Sunny Savita: I didn't get your last point, what you said, sorry.
Sandeep: So, basically, while we are doing this all fine-tuning, using one particular LLM model, right? So, LLM model comes with its own weights and other stuff, and then we strip down the entire content in the form of, you know, whatever the
Sandeep: Efficient, technique that we are using.
Sandeep: Then it goes all the way up to inferencing, where we have our fine-tuned, you know, content, the model.
Sandeep: So, this model will basically reside as part of the final, embedded vector size in the form of tensor.
Sandeep: Because we have to, again, upload this back into the hugging.
Sunny Savita: No, no, no, model, actually, it is going to be decided in the form of binary file, okay? Save tensor file I've shown you in the previous class, right?
Sunny Savita: So you will not be able to see the embedding directly over there, numbers directly over there, it's a binary file, right? So, we don't capture that model directly in any form of embedding and all, we capture it in a different format, got it?
Sandeep: Okay, so that embedded vector basically is a pre-step to tensor.
Sandeep: Because when we are already training the model, it already is in the form of the embeddings, right?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, not embedding, actually. Those are the weights, okay? Model weights, actually. Model. That is a model. So whenever we pass any data, the data is being passed in the form of vectors, okay? It is processing inside the model, and then output is being generated. Got it?
Sandeep: Okay.
Sandeep: Yeah, it's a bit, difficult, I understand, because it's just first, one session explaining all these things.
Sandeep: I know people have spent, like, researchers have spent, like, years and years.
Sandeep: It's difficult to, you know, comprehend in one session alone how exactly everything works, so… It's fine.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, that's what I'm saying, no? Because, see, this thing takes time to understand, but people, don't understand that part, what I'm trying to say, okay? Because for this kind of thing, the revision would be required, okay? So, see, just think, AI, LLM, how vast it is.
Sunny Savita: This entire thing is directly connected with the ML, and whatever I'm teaching now, you won't believe this is directly connected with a deep learning convolution neural network concept. If you have ever learned the fine-tuning concept over there, or if you have ever fine-tuned the advanced NLP model, you can easily understand this part, whatever I explain. Okay?
Sunny Savita: So, but if you're directly starting from this point, then it will be a little difficult.
Sunny Savita: Firstly, you cannot become a master, okay? So, just spend some more time on it, you will get… got it?
Sandeep: Yeah, and I think many people, most of them, are not even having a Python background. Everyone picked up this.
Sandeep: Because of DJ.
Sunny Savita: Correct, correct, correct. Everyone wants to basically become a Gen AI engineer, right? They're coming from the different technology. If any one single line is written, like, in a typical one in that, like, different manner, right? So, finding some difficulty challenges to understand that.
Sunny Savita: Okay. I've seen many things. I think one person just before you, you were, like, he was talking, so I can easily understand. He's having a problem with the Python itself first, actually.
Sandeep: Yeah, yeah, even I'm learning the Python only few months into this, right? So, it's the story everywhere, and because fear creeps in, right, with all things going around in the world, that firing and everything, layoffs are…
Sunny Savita: Don't worry, see, this kind of thing, you're not going to be doing on real time, actually. So, fine-tuning and all, we rarely do. Even I'm working from past 6 to 7 years in the industry, I never ever done fine-tuning on that level. I did it, one preference tuning and the instruction tuning.
Sunny Savita: But not onto that level, like, other companies are doing, OpenAI Cloud, right, or any other one. So in enterprise, it is not very common.
Sunny Savita: Agentic system, RAG, those systems are the common one, okay? Most of the solution is going to be built around to that only, okay?
Sandeep: Correct, yeah. And, yeah, that reminds me, my… another question got, left out. So, when OpenAI and Anthropic and these kind of big companies actually, you know, fine-tune their own models, right?
Sandeep: So they keep it in their own repositories, right? They might not be uploading it anywhere else, right? Like a Hugging Face or any community repositories.
Sunny Savita: Yes, yes. They are making a couple of things only open source, but, rest of the thing is the proprietary of them, so they are not releasing that.
Sandeep: Yeah, okay, because that's going to be their secret sauce, right? Like, the Anthropic is releasing…
Sandeep: Every two weeks, something really… new thing, right?
Sandeep: Which is, you know, going viral in the market. So that's going to be the secret sauce for them, right, that they will not reveal to anyone.
Sunny Savita: Yes, sir, internal technology they don't release, no? We don't even know which model, which technique, internal technique they have… Anthropic have used to train their model, right?
Sandeep: So…
Sunny Savita: It's like a secret, means, company won't release that, actually, okay?
Sandeep: Yeah, yeah, got it. That was my question, actually. Okay, thanks. I think it's pretty late. Thank you for staying up and answering all questions.
Sunny Savita: Yeah. Thank you, sir, thank you.
Sandeep: Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Any more doubt, Sunil?
Sunny Savita: What crush… Deepak, guys, anyone is there, please go ahead.
sunil: Yeah, am I audible?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, sweet.
sunil: I have a very small question regarding this fine-tuning. So, when you load the model, like, tiny LLM, so first, load it into, let's say, RAM, let's say the size of
sunil: model is 1GB, then it was loaded into RAM first, right?
Sunny Savita: Hmm.
sunil: And then you have done that part, like, then you have used that same model, used a lower adopter, build a lower adapter based on that model. Everything is happening on RAM, and once we use this PDF, which is, like, funnel…
sunil: a clean PDF data.
sunil: To fine-tune, like, with lower adapter, right?
sunil: So then that model might have 1GB size, that… it always be 1GB, but we have just changed some parameter in my RAM, and then I'm using in my, laptop. So there is no API call from Hugging Face, nothing called from, I mean, Tiny LLM or OpenAI.
sunil: like, who is the model provider? So there is no API call for… Model call.
sunil: Or if you can share that quote, then maybe I can… Oh, ask in detail.
Sunny Savita: This thing I already explained, right?
sunil: You explained, but I'm a little confused on… because last… okay, what is my understanding?
Sunny Savita: No, this model is loading directly from the Hugging Face Hub, right?
sunil: Yeah, Hugging Face. So, yeah, so, okay, so let me just tell me my introduction, then you say, it's correct or wrong. Alright, so whatever, like, you were showing last session, Hugging Face, we have a lot of.
Sunny Savita: Hello, Sunil, I lost your voice, hello.
Sunny Savita: Guys, can you hear me?
Utkarsh Pagare: Yes, Sunny, we can hear it.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: I think I'm not able to hear too, Sunil. Anyone able to hear too, Sunil?
Utkarsh Pagare: No.
Utkarsh Pagare: I'm more difficult.
Sunny Savita: Okay, wait, guys, give me a moment, 2 minute of break, okay, I'm coming back.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, let's begin again. Yeah, Utras, what's your doubt?
Utkarsh Pagare: Hi, Sunny, thank you so much. Like, I also, I work in pharma, okay, and, pharma company.
Utkarsh Pagare: Toh, marigo ke a dusra, who is a LLM model, jo ki table seriously, extract kar le thaw chisela table ka data samajata. Jobs up right now, split karate cheese hain.
Utkarsh Pagare: pipeline mein splitting ke time peut special. Or agar ma egg roll.
Sunny Savita: You can… see, for this pre-trading, you can generate the summary of the table, okay? Or you can convert the table into the markdown format, and you can keep it into the text column, that's it.
Utkarsh Pagare: Okay.
Utkarsh Pagare: Second question, was, just to, like, understand… merely understandings are in the beginning.
Utkarsh Pagare: That was non-instruction fine-tuning,
Utkarsh Pagare: seh…
Utkarsh Pagare: We develop a software, a third-party vendor, for whom software development connects, and require specification document data requirement as software key, bases this document.
Sunny Savita: You…
Utkarsh Pagare: apart agar Meripo requirement specification document generate karvana hai through LLM. Three instruction fine-tuning ender mehakan?
Sunny Savita: The specific document generated kernel means, sorry?
Utkarsh Pagare: Specification document.
Sunny Savita: No, no instruction for Intuning Mega, correct, correct.
Utkarsh Pagare: Oh.
Utkarsh Pagare: And,
Utkarsh Pagare: So, okay, look, suppose NAAC study, NAS clinical trial, opposite train karna padayga, apne model pro, I mean fine-tune karna padega, instruction fine-tuned.
Utkarsh Pagare: Same jo model hai, generate kar sapta hai mira requirement specification document, which is the knowledge already,
Utkarsh Pagare: the LLM has.
Sunny Savita: model ki, okay?
Utkarsh Pagare: Got it. And,
Utkarsh Pagare: Last question, ki jo, aapne do parts mein divide ker data, test entering. To test wala jo, parts hai, usme ju…
Utkarsh Pagare: LLM occurs, fine-tuned LLM, we generate Karatha output. Uska word-to-word match 1HA with the trained, like, the train dataset, sorry, test dataset to compare gurunga mein, or risk generation, compare Garunga.
Utkarsh Pagare: Should it match exactly word-to-word? Because accuracy may kasi measure the wrong SK, because word-to-word was up to generate exactly now or aho.
Utkarsh Pagare: But meaning same home.
Sunny Savita: Accuracy generate kapne ke a lagalak tari ke oute sar matlab,
Sunny Savita: Blue score se kar sakte ho, perplexity score se kartsaktihua, neto ku chapne common apne suari manual parameter banak kar sakte ho.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Utkarsh Pagare: Just…
Sunny Savita: evolution volume chapter may call them up.
Utkarsh Pagare: Okay, okay, sure.
Utkarsh Pagare: Sure, something. Last one… last quick question, like, is it possible, kikal afternoon, video upload, because…
Utkarsh Pagare: But in case refer now, next class, because kalki class, it would be easier for us.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, sure, we'll check, okay, we'll upload it by tomorrow, okay?
Utkarsh Pagare: Okay, sure. Thank you so much. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Thanks.
Smit: Hi, Sunny.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, Smith, what's it down?
sunil: Can I, can, can I continue on.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, Sunil, you can, but, after Smith, okay? Yeah, Smith?
sunil: Okay.
Smit: Sorry, quick question. So, 512 batch that we use, that's a hyperparameter, right? It's experimental breeding?
Smit: Or, if I want to block.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, yeah, you can keep any block length there, okay?
Smit: Okay, okay, yeah, that was enough. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Sunil, please go ahead.
sunil: Actually, that model, like, which I understand from the last session, we load from the either hacking phase, like, on local memory or through OLAMA, in our hard disk. So here, in that code, like, you used, like, a dataset something, and on the dataset.
sunil: What I understand, that model is being loaded, right? That tiny URL. So you have given the name in the configuration. That's the model name, but
sunil: I'm unable to relate, like, how it is coming from the hugging Face, because… Either we first…
sunil: download in our local memory, then we can fine-tune. This is one way I know. Second, as you mentioned, this is happening in RAM.
sunil: So, this is my understanding now. We are loading at runtime in RAM, and then we are using LoRa to adjust the parameter, or fine-tune.
sunil: This part, I'm…
sunil: I'm, like, unable to visualize, like, how it is happening. First thing, like, data model, sorry, LLM model.
sunil: How you fetch from the hugging phase in this code?
sunil: Because I could not see any hugging face,
sunil: import or anything face library in this notebook.
Sunny Savita: So I'm using a Hugging Fist library only now?
sunil: This dataset is… am I… that's why I haven't understand, yes.
Sunny Savita: If you will check the import statement, there I mention, see?
Sunny Savita: Transformer, this dataset, it's.
sunil: This data set is Hugging Waste Library, but… This tool. This transport.
Sunny Savita: remote is also Hugging Fist Library.
sunil: Okay, so in, yeah, I haven't used in, even my knowledge in Python also, like, now it's very basic, like, loop and, simple, if and else.
sunil: So these, import what you are doing, I mean.
sunil: data set and transforming, because I cannot understand, okay, because it is from working with.
Sunny Savita: See, this thing I already explained in the previous class, okay?
sunil: You're right.
Sunny Savita: previous class now. And even I told you that this data set library and transformer library, it's a Hugging fish library, right? Now, we are going to be using this auto-tokenizer class, auto model class.
sunil: So, it is.
Sunny Savita: Downloading the… it is loading the model from the Hugging Face Hub directly, and for that, it is required the Hugging Face key, read key or read right key, tell me yes or no, right?
sunil: Yes, yes, yes, yes.
Sunny Savita: We already have this key, okay, this Hugging Fist token, read key, right? So we can load the model from the Hugging Fist hub directly.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
sunil: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Same thing I'm using for loading the model. If you will navigate to the code, you will find out the same only.
Sunny Savita: Understood.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
sunil: Okay, okay, now I understood. Okay, still,
sunil: I may have missed that part, because this data…
Sunny Savita: See, here I'm… this loading is from where? This loading is from the Hugging Face Hub only.
sunil: Yes, yes, yes.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
sunil: That is… that's showing available, auto-loader, yeah, auto to organizer.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, and see, this model, again, loading from the Hugging Face only, this one.
Sunny Savita: Sorry, this, this, this…
sunil: The bottom of,
Sunny Savita: This one. This model is loading from the Aging phase hub only. Got it?
sunil: Yes.
sunil: Okay.
sunil: So…
sunil: So first, it will load into the RAM, then, if you want to save, after training, or after fine-tuning.
sunil: Then we can have in our local memory.
Sunny Savita: So, see, every processing happened in the RAM only, no?
Sunny Savita: In any system, in any server, anything is running in the RAM only, right?
sunil: Yeah, this is, like, RAM, this is, let's say, this has happened in my room.
Sunny Savita: It is loading the model in a volatile memory. Then after training, we are saving over the disk only.
sunil: Disk, and then we can also use it in any server where I wanted to consume my own model, right?
Sunny Savita: Got it.
sunil: And the second question, let's say, if some company might have, broad LLM use cases, like they… like, for the pharma something, they wanted to get the answer from a fine-tuned data model, or LLM.
sunil: But for the generic something, they want to use, let's say, a very good summarization. They want to use any existing, let's say, Cloud AS on it, or OpenAI model.
sunil: So, how they can mix, public LLM and this
sunil: So, it should be, like, some agent.
Sunny Savita: You can host this LLM somewhere, right? You can expose it as an API, or you can use the LLM gateways, right? So, with that, actually, you can do the routing, whichever model is required to you, you can utilize it via LLM gateway only. Got it?
sunil: LLM gateway. So, would you explain what is this?
sunil: I'm…
Sunny Savita: LLM database, nothing, it is just a router, right? So, let's say you have multiple models in a backend, and you wanted to use those models for your task, respective task.
Sunny Savita: let's say one model for the coding, one model for any… a different task, right? So that LLM gateway automatically will do the routing in the backend. So, let's say if any of the queries related to this kind of data set, so automatically that will route to the… your fine-tuned model, okay?
sunil: So, this is a gifting framework, or we… everyone should write their own gateway?
Sunny Savita: You can, write some manual code and all, but, some, inbuilt gateways are already there. You can check out, okay? Yeah.
sunil: Okay.
sunil: And maybe you, you will also, when I am hearing this a lot of nowadays, agent gateway, agent, MCP… Oh, just a second.
Sunny Savita: Explore that. Once you will check out directly with the ChatGPT itself, you will get, okay?
sunil: Sure, sure, sure, okay, okay. Thank you, Sunny.
sunil: That's no question.
Sunny Savita: Any more doubt, guys? .
Deepak: Yeah. So, Sunny, so this is a generic question that I have.
Deepak: And, some, previously also a few people have, have asked similar questions. So, just wanted to know, suppose if we do not have any reference material, like this video code that we can refer to, or we cannot generate code from AI, then what is the perfect, way to proceed
Deepak: to write code from scratch. Like, I know we can refer from,
Deepak: the core repositories, or from the documentation and all. But from each and every small custom requirement also, do we need to, again, go back to the documentation and then find out what is the solution there, and then to write the code? So, is it how, is practiced in real time?
Sunny Savita: Correct, correct.
Sunny Savita: without AI, actually, we were following the same approach, okay?
Sunny Savita: We were referring the different, different blocks, we were referring the documentation and all, okay? And, we are, taking the code snippet from the GitHub, from the Stack Overflow.
Sunny Savita: Got it?
Sunny Savita: But nowadays, we have an AI, so if we know the entire flow, entire process, we can directly give the prompt to the ChatGPT cloud, and it can generate the same kind of code for us, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, right now, you don't need to write a manual code using the documentation and all. You can take a help of the Cloud and the ChatGPT web search option.
Sunny Savita: And you can even, generate the, latest code also from the documentation. But yeah, again, documentation is the ground truth for any, like,
Sunny Savita: For any specific, code, right? So let's see if you're doing… for the hugging phase. So the hugging phase documentation is a ground truth for you. Let's see if you're writing any Langchen-specific code. The Langchen documentation is a ground truth for you. Got it?
Deepak: Okay.
Deepak: Okay, thanks, honey.
Sunny Savita: Yup.
Sunny Savita: Any more doubt, guys? Otherwise, I'll close.
Ali: Bye.
Sunny Savita: Yearly, what's a doubt?
Ali: Yeah, so me, Ian, and I'm facing some issue on the phone.
Ali: And, while accessing token in the previous class also, in this class, cool, and… taking some insuring…
Ali: Okay, getting the tokens, accessing tokens.
Sunny Savita: Which accessing token?
Ali: So…
Ali: So, generally, in this code, there is one cell where you are pushing the model to the, in this repository.
Ali: So, there, I have assigned the right token.
Ali: But still, I'm getting some error with that.
Ali: You do not have access.
Sunny Savita: Show me, show me, share the screen.
Ali: Then, boom.
Sunny Savita: Wait, I'm adding a panelist.
Ali: Let me know if you're able to see the things.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I can see.
Ali: Yeah, so basically, this part,
Ali: This part where we are pushing this.
Ali: June is above.
Ali: That, I mean, you're thinking to set information.
Ali: Maybe something I'm doing wrong, even in the earlier…
Sunny Savita: Login with the right token, then I told you that you can do the notebook login also, correct?
Ali: Yeah, I did that. I did the… There we go.
Ali: Cartoon Center, I guess there haven'.
Sunny Savita: Just restart the kernel, and do the notebook login again, okay? Do it, restart it.
Ali: Yeah, this is what our own.
Ali: So, we're answering.
Sunny Savita: Run it, and do the notebook login.
Sunny Savita: Why it is not giving it that option for…
Sunny Savita: You have a Hugging Face token now, right?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah. Just set that environment variable name with the right token, okay? So… It will be working.
Ali: Alright, this one.
Sunny Savita: Tomorrow, tomorrow I can show you that, okay? Just, do one thing, leave it for now.
Sunny Savita: Tomorrow I can show you how you can do. Otherwise, do one thing, just set this HF token as a right token, and then you can try to push it. Got it? I think still I haven't shown that partner, so tomorrow I can show you.
Ali: I think this is the right token only, so we are… This is the right token, no?
Ali: It is same as this, HMO.
Sunny Savita: Just set it as an environment variable here. You can see that line before the notebook login, os.environment, correct?
Sunny Savita: Just give the right token over here.
Sunny Savita: Copy the below one, HF, token right.
Sunny Savita: Oh, this one.
Sunny Savita: Copy is there, no copy, copy. This one.
Sunny Savita: You can test out with that repository creation. The later on, you can push your model also, okay?
Ali: Okay, let me pray that.
Sunny Savita: Yup.
Ali: I'll be able to run on this. And one more question I have is, so, indeed,
Ali: Today we had one PDL.
Ali: Which had one text, and… What we are doing in the court is…
Ali: Page by page, we are getting all the paragraphs, and we are cleaning that data in the data instruction.
Ali: So, suppose tomorrow, like, if the PDF is having some table, or any of the complex sort of data arrangements, and we have to take out the data from that table.
Ali: Or, so, like, how do we approach that?
Sunny Savita: To table data, you can consider in one of the paragraphs, right?
Ali: I'm kidding.
Sunny Savita: You can consider… see, you can take the table, you can generate a summary out of the table.
Sunny Savita: Okay? You can consider that either in the text column or else. You can keep the same table also in the markdown format in the same text column.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point.
Sunny Savita: Right? So to deal with the table in the pre-training is not a big challenge.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Ali: So, say, so what I'm, basically, here, the problem is.
Ali: If we have, some 10, 15 PDFs, which is having one kind of table, and 10-15 PDFs of other kind of table.
Sunny Savita: Hmm.
Ali: Do we have to…
Ali: Do the, preprocessing of a set of… a set of PDFs, or…
Sunny Savita: Yes, yes, yes, you will have to reprocess all the data.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Ali: Okay, so that, exactly that table format should be known beforehand.
Sunny Savita: Yes. Means, see, you have a table, you know that table, correct? Now, you have to think onto that. It is your own logic and all. Even… even I cannot say which way would be correct. So, the straightforward way is nothing. You have a text column in that, you can keep the
Sunny Savita: table as a row, right? So you can convert that table into the markdown.
Sunny Savita: And you can keep that inside the text column, that's it. And you can provide it to the file for the fine-tuning, okay?
Ali: Okay, buddy.
Ali: But I think the,
Ali: Final thing is, like, final logic is, like, we have to deal with different table in a different way, like, in the text channel, but we can keep the text, we can extract the text.
Ali: And then we can, go in with, our own fine-tuning and other procedures.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, you can turn one this way also.
Ali: Okay, 100%.
Sunny Savita: True.
Sunny Savita: Thank you, Ali. Now, let's close session. So, thank you guys, bye, take care. I'll see you in the next class. Good night.